[Source: https://www.trymito.io/industries/life-sciences]
[Title: AI Python Package for Life Sciences and Bioinformatics | Mito]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:35:34+00:00]

Cutting-edge life science professionals deserve cutting-edge Python tools
Intuitive Python automation tools that let you focus on the science.
The Best Python Library for Biology and Life Sciences
"Mito combines the familiarity of Excel with the power of Python. I'm able to quickly clean up, explore, and transform large data sets in a way that wouldn't be possible with Excel. Mito generates code that is flexible, scalable, and repeatable. Now, three years later, I can't imagine tackling my day-to-day work without Mito as one of my tools."
— Matthew Blome, Functional Lead @ Cytiva
Excel is slow, repetitive, and error prone
Excel wasn't designed for scientific analyses. It's nearly impossible to verify Excel models don't contain manual mistakes like typos and accidental data manipulation.
According to an article published by Nature, “Despite geneticists being warned about spreadsheet problems, 30% of published papers contain mangled gene names in supplementary data.”
Python, Pandas, and SQL are the modern scientist's stack
Using Python lets you take advantage of powerful libraries designed specifically for life science research. Learn cutting-edge machine learning, bioinformatics, and data science techniques to accelerate your research and advance your career.
Writing code for your analyis means you can verify its accuracy once and be confident in all of your future results.
Create self-serve dashboards for your lab
Your entire lab doesn't need to adopt Python for it to transform the way you work.
Become the Python early adopter on your team, and use Mito to create self-serve dashboards for common analyses that everyone in your lab can utilize. The rest of your team won't need to learn Python to benefit from its power.
Mito simplifies Python for Life Sciences
Bioinformatics
Use Python libraries specifically designed for bioinformatics research, like BioPython, to parse bioinformatics files, perform k Nearest Neighbors classifications, and common operations like translation and transcription.
Use Mito to visualize and clean your data without bouncing back and forth between Excel and Python. And add functions from BioPython and other libraries directly into Mito.
Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals
Easily build scripts to split datasets by patient or hospital visits, convert dates to the correct format, and filter through complex data.
Build scripts once and reuse them countless times, saving yourself hours per week of data wrangling and error checking.
Computational Biotech
Some things are always easier to do in spreadsheet. Create pivot tables and graphs in Mito's point and click UI to verify that your code is correct.
Use summary statistics to build intuition about your datasets and figure out the next steps in your analysis.