[Source: https://www.trymito.io/infrastructure-integration-python-tool]
[Title: Python Infrastructure Integration Tools | Mito]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:35:34+00:00]

Integrate Mito into your Enterprise Python Infrastructure
Let analysts use your Python functions inside of a spreadsheet
Your team's Python code shouldn't sit unused in a GitHub repo. Make Python functions accessible in the Mito spreadsheet.
Analysts that don't know how to use Python functions, use spreadsheet functions instead.
Configurable Database Queries
Expose configurable database imports through the Mito UI. Mito automatically detects the parameters and generates an intuitive UI for non-technical users.
Once the data is in Mito, analysts can use all of Mito's transformations to complete their analysis.
Custom Spreadsheet Formulas
Make custom financial calculations and API calls accessible as Mito spreadsheet functions.
Analysts don't need to search GitHub, read documentation, or even know how to code. They already know how to use spreadsheets.
Flexible Code Snippets
Send an email, build Enterprise-styled graphs, scan a dataframe for personally identifiable information.
If you can build it in Python, you can make it accessible to your non-technical analysts in Mito. Help your analysts unlock the full power of Python automation.
Augment your existing Enterprise Infrastructure
Embed Mito in Enterprise Applications
Turn existing dashboards into self-serve data analytics apps. Add Mito to your Streamlit dashboard, Django app, or other custom enterprise applications.
Let users filter, pivot, and graph data directly in your app.
Connect Mito to your data infrastructure
Pull data from your enterprise database solutions directly into Mito so that analysts can self-serve the most up to date data.
Forcing users to write SQL queries to access their data is one of the biggest blockers to data app adoption.
Bring your own LLM, be in control of your data
Connecting Mito to your own LLM means that you have complete control over your data, while also giving users a powerful UI for AI report generation.
Learn more about Mito AI.
Frequently Asked Questions
Mito Enterprise admins can configure environment variables that make custom spreadsheet functions, database imports, and code snippets available to all users.
Your Mito implementation specialist can help you verify that your custom features are in the correct format and accessible to your users.
At its core, Mito is a React frontend and Python backend. That means, you can embed Mito in a large variety of applications. Its easy to add Mito to a Streamlit app, Django app, or any Jupyter-based system.
Have questions? Reach out to the Mito Enterprise Integration team.