[Source: https://www.trymito.io/spreadsheet-automation]
[Title: No-Code Spreadsheet Automation Software for Python | Mito]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:35:34+00:00]

The No-Code Approach to Spreadsheet Automation
Automate your spreadsheets in hours, not months.
The easiest way to write Python code
Every edit made in the Mito spreadsheet is automatically converted to Python code.
Edit your data just like you do in Excel, and receive production ready Python code. No searching Pandas documentation or Stack Overflow.
See our guide to automating spreadsheet with Python.
Explore your data visually
There's no replacement for scrolling through your data. Enter fullscreen mode and build intuition about your analysis.
Use Mito's Excel-like interface to view CSV/Excel files and dataframes. And further explore your data by graphing, viewing summary stats, and creating pivot tables.
Generate formatted Excel files
Apply conditional formatting, set table colors, and format numbers using Mito. Don't waste time trying to understand the xlsxwriter API -- it's confusing even to engineers!
Learn more about generating presentation-ready Excel files.
All of the functionality you expect, built to generate Python code
We've implemented all of Excel's most powerful features in Python so you don't have to. Keep using the tools you're most comfortable with, and automatically generate reusable Python code.
View all 100+ transformations →Pivot Tables
Aggregate your large data to pull out the essential insights.
Graphs & Visualizations
Build beautiful, interactive graphs and apply conditional formatting to tables.
Excel-like formulas
Use formulas like, IF, SUM, and MID to transform your data.
Filter and sort
Sort and filter data based on simple or complex conditions so you can focus on the data that matters.
Database Connections
Use Mito's Snowflake query builder to generate SQL without writing any code.
Customizable
Make your org's custom functions, graph templates, and database connections accessible through Mito.
The Benefits of Automating Excel and Google Spreadsheets
Larger datasets, faster edits
Excel and Google Sheets aren't designed for modern data. Insert 1 million rows of data into Excel and you'll wait 10 minutes every time you update your analysis.
Modern data teams use Python to analyze millions of rows of data in just a couple of seconds. No more waiting on your Excel files.
Use the full power of Python
Excel used to be the data collection, analysis, and report presentation tool. Today, modern data teams use Excel primarily as the output of analyses.
Automating reports in Python lets you use AI and ML to extract insights, connect directly to all of your data sources, and utilize template analyses built by your organization.
Reduce bugs and key person risk
Because Excel reports lack structure, it's easy to introduce bugs into your report. And it's nearly impossible to transfer responsibility for a large Excel file to someone else on your team.
By transitioning to Python, you reduce the chance of off-by-one errors and make it much easier for processes to last as long as you need them.
Mito is the easiset way to automate with Python and Pandas
Edit a spreadsheet. Generate Python.
Mito automatically converts each edit you make into Python code. So you can create your analysis like you usually do in Excel, and use the Mito generated Python code to automate your analysis going forward.