[Source: https://www.hbku.edu.qa/cl]
[Title: College of Law (CL) | HBKU]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:18:51+00:00]

Programs
News and Insights
Qatar Joins the Global Community’s United Fight Against Cybercrime
Qatar’s signing of the United Nations Convention Against Cybercrime largely aligns with the State’s pre-existing legal framework. Writing for Gulf Times , the College of Law’s Dean Susan L. Karamanian nevertheless anticipates further legislative alignment and conversations about protecting critical cyber infrastructure while preserving competing values.
Qatar Joins the Global Community’s United Fight Against Cybercrime
Hamad Bin Khalifa University Advances Legal and Policy Dialogue on Industrial Strategies and Achieving Twin Transition
Iran’s Closure of the Strait of Hormuz: A Threat to the International Legal Order and Global Energy Security?
Hamad Bin Khalifa University and Partners Advance Environmental Law, Digital Transformation at Regional Conference
Hamad Bin Khalifa University’s UNESCO Chair Equips Legal Practitioners for Energy Transition Age
College of Law Annual Clinton W. Francis Lecture Examines Legal Professionalism in the Age of AI
Investment Governance for Sustainable Development: Building the Foundations of a Knowledge-Based Economy
Hamad Bin Khalifa University’s College of Law Receives Decennial Award for Excellence in Legal Education
College of Law Faculty Appointed Vice President of Asian Society of International Law
The College of Law addresses today’s legal challenges with a future-oriented view and awareness of rapid technological developments.
Dr. Susan L. Karamanian
Dean of the College of Law
About the CollegeEvents
Testimonials
In addition to being a first-year student in HBKU’s College of Law JD program, I am a planning engineer who deals with claims and disputes arising from contracts. After only a few months at the College of Law, my professional skills have remarkably improved, thanks to the wonderful professors at HBKU who have given me critical legal insights into my daily work.
Dana Al Marri
JD StudentI couldn’t have asked for better professors during my years studying at HBKU. Their pedagogy, dedication, and ambitions were inspiring. Not only have they been mentors, they are now my friends!
Ammar Aldien
JD StudentIn
Numbers
99
Current Students
124
Alumni
4
Programs