[Source: https://www.hbku.edu.qa/en/leadership]
[Title: Leadership at HBKU – Board Members and Senior Management]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:18:51+00:00]

Her Highness Sheikha Moza bint Nasser
Co-Founder and Chairperson, Qatar Foundation for Education, Science and Community Development (QF)
Founder of Hamad Bin Khalifa University (HBKU)
Her Highness Sheikha Moza bint Nasser has been actively engaged in education and other social reforms in Qatar for many years and has played a major role in spearheading national and international development projects.
Her Excellency Sheikha Hind bint Hamad Al Thani
Vice Chairperson of Qatar Foundation (QF)
Chairperson of the Board of Trustees, Hamad Bin Khalifa University (HBKU)
Her Excellency Sheikha Hind bint Hamad Al Thani serves as Vice Chairperson of Qatar Foundation (QF), a private non-profit organization founded in 1995 by His Highness the Father Amir Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani, and Her Highness Sheikha Moza bint Nasser, Co-Founder and Chairperson of Qatar Foundation.
In addition to her work at Qatar Foundation, Sheikha ...
Board Members
H.E. Mr. Mansoor bin Ebrahim bin Saad Al Mahmoud
Vice Chair
Dr. Freddy Boey
Member
Dr. Thomas F. Hofmann
Member
H.E. Dr. Yousef H. Al-Ebraheem
Member
Sheikh Ali Bin Jabor Bin Mohammad Al Thani
Member
Dr. Dominique Rossin
Member
Eng. Abdullah Al-Sulaiti
Member
Eng. Mark Chaban
Member
Dr. Taha A. Kass-Hout
Member
Dr. Ling San
Member
Dr. Ahmad M. Hasnah
Ex-officio
Dr. Ahmad M. Hasnah
President
Dr. Ahmad M. Hasnah is the President of Hamad Bin Khalifa University (HBKU), a member of Qatar Foundation for Education, Science, and Community Development (QF) in Doha, Qatar.
Since he joined QF in 2002, Dr. Hasnah has been a key player in the development of Education City– a unique hub for knowledge and education through partnerships with world-class ...
Dr. Prabhat Hajela
Provost
Dr. Eyad Ahmad Masad
Vice President for Research
Eng. Soud Abdulaziz Al-Tamimi
Vice President of Audit, Risk, and Compliance
Dr. Maryam Hamad Al-Mannai
Vice President for Student Affairs
Eng. Hamad Mohammed Al Kuwari
Vice President of Finance and Administration
Ms. Maryah Al-Dafa
Vice President for Development and Strategic Planning
Dr. Recep Şentürk
Dean of the College of Islamic Studies
Dr. Yasir Suleiman-Malley
Dean of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences
Dr. Mounir Hamdi
Founding Dean of the College of Science and Engineering
Dr. Susan L. Karamanian
Dean of the College of Law
Dr. Markus R. Wenk
Dean of the College of Health and Life Sciences
Dr. Logan Cochrane
Acting Dean of the College of Public Policy
Dr. Laoucine Kerbache
Acting Dean of the School of Economics and Management
Research Institutes Executive Directors
Dr. Ahmed Elmagarmid
Executive Director of Qatar Computing Research Institute
Dr. Tareq Ali H A Al-Ansari
Executive Director of Qatar Environment and Energy Research Institute
Dr. Vladimir Katanaev
Acting Executive Director of Qatar Biomedical Research Institute
University Executive Directors
Bachar Chebaro
Executive Director of HBKU Press
Dr. Nadir Yildirim
Executive Director of the Office of Innovation and Industrial Relations
Dr. Adel Cherif
Executive Director of Institutional Effectiveness
Mohamed Abuelgasim
Executive Director of the Executive Education Center
Dr. Mohamed Ali Chihi
Executive Director of the Global Institute for Strategic Research