[Source: https://www.hbku.edu.qa/en/life-hbku]
[Title: Life at HBKU – Events and activities for students]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:18:51+00:00]

Student Involvement at HBKU
Student Organizations
Students have the opportunity to create student organizations based on shared interest. They will receive support and advising from a staff member with a dedicated budget too. Existing opportunities include the HBKU Student Council, International Student Club, and the Qatari Cultural Club.
Career Development
Our dedicated team works hosts an annual Career Fair with partners from local and international industries to assist you in exploring your passions, values, and goals no matter where you are in your career.
Sports, Recreation & Wellness
Leagues, facilities, classes, and tournaments are offered year-round to HBKU students in order to promote healthy lifestyle and wellness. HBKU has a Male Football Team and teams for basketball and female football are currently recruiting. Please contact sports and recreation for further information.
Student Resources
Providing a wide range of resources that enhance both academic and campus life. The Student Resources page offers access to important tools and information designed to help students succeed throughout their university journey.
Residential Life/Housing
Imagine a campus that brings some of the world’s leading universities to your doorstep. Imagine the diversity and its possibilities when students from over 60 countries share knowledge, experiences, and learn new and exciting things together.
Health and Counseling
The Student Affairs office at HBKU is committed to prioritizing the health and well-being of its students. To achieve this goal, the office provides a range of services to promote physical and mental health, as well as lifestyle and diet advice.
Getting Involved
The HBKU Student Life office offers a variety of involvement opportunities in the areas of leadership development and service-learning, including Leadership and Not Your Average Spring Break, aimed to provide a holistic university experience.
Students are valuable part-time employees who make significant contributions throughout Education City while fostering responsibility and gaining opportunities for learning and skill development. Click here to find the right employment opportunity for you.
HBKU values being an active part of the wider Qatar community and organizes social events and gatherings on an annual basis including Souqna (Bazaar), Community Day, and Media Day.
Whether bringing the Garangao tradition to campus during Ramadan, enjoying visits to the Museum of Islamic Art, or taking in the latest exhibit at the HBKU Student Center’s Art Gallery, students are offered a variety of ways to celebrate cultures and the Arts.
Upcoming Events
What's happening at HBKU
Getting Around HBKU
Explore our interactive Education City Map and find your way around the campus.
Living in Qatar
Doha, the capital of Qatar, is a city in motion — a place with ambitious aspirations and opportunities that seem to multiply daily. Over the past 10 years, Doha has emerged as a center for business, culture, sport and education, as well as an emerging media capital.
Facts and Figures
864
Students
Students in 2021: 21% International, 28% Qataris, and 51% Residents
79 %
Total Students
Including Qataris and Residents
60 +
Nationalities
Students from more than 60 nations are studying at HBKU
15,000
Applicants
Submitted to HBKU programs for Fall 2021