[Source: https://www.hbku.edu.qa/en/qcri]
[Title: Qatar Computing Research Institute (QCRI) | HBKU]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:18:51+00:00]

Research at QCRI
Ensuring that the Arabic language flourishes in the digital world is a priority area of QCRI’s research. We are dedicated to promoting the Arabic language in the information age. Some of our current research projects address the challenges related to lack of content and equally important, extracting that content, analyzing and transforming it.
Founded in 2018, the Research Engineering Group was established with the vision of becoming an innovation hub that generates transformative solutions addressing real-world challenges of both local and global significance. Our mission is to transform QCRI research outcomes into robust, commercially viable products.
We are living in a time of a paradigm shift towards cyber security attacks on targets such as critical infrastructure, governments and sensitive data.
QCRI’s Qatar Center for Artificial intelligence Group research expertise transcends the data science stack - from data extraction and cleaning to analytics, retrieval, inference and prediction.
News and Insights
Hamad Bin Khalifa University’s Qatar Computing Research Institute Accepting Applications for Summer Internship Program
As part of its commitment to building national digital and technology capacity, the Qatar Computing Research Institute (QCRI) at Hamad Bin Khalifa University (HBKU) has opened applications for its Summer Internship Program.
Designed to cultivate the next generation of innovators and researchers, the internship offers undergraduate and graduate students intensive, hands-on experience in advanced research and software development. Over eight weeks, participants will work alongside QCRI scientists and engineers across key areas, including Arabic Language Technologies, Cyber Security, and artificial intelligence (AI), contributing to projects that address real-world challenges and advance Qatar’s growing digital ecosystem.
Applications are open until Friday, April 10. Activities will run in cohorts, with the first taking place from May 10 to July 9, 2026, for Education City universities, while a second cohort for Qatar University students will run from May 31 to July 23, 2026. The program will be delivered online.
Through initiatives like this, HBKU further strengthens collaboration between academia and industry, accelerating innovation and positioning Qatar as a hub for advanced digital research and technological development. The program feeds directly into Qatar’s long-term national development strategy by cultivating a pipeline of skilled researchers equipped to address challenges in data science, AI, and cybersecurity.
Commenting on the program, Dr. Ahmed Elmagarmid, Executive Director, QCRI, stated: “Our Summer Internship opens doors for students and helps them understand available pathways for advancing their careers. Through meaningful project work and mentorship, we are equipping students with the tools to identify complex problems and develop tested solutions with tangible impact.”
QCRI aligns academic excellence with priority areas, by empowering the next generation of leaders. In doing so, it drives Qatar’s transition toward a diversified and knowledge-based economy.
Hamad Bin Khalifa University’s Qatar Computing Research Institute Accepting Applications for Summer Internship Program
Hamad Bin Khalifa University and Global Partners Advance Regional AI Landscape at MenaML Winter School
Hamad Bin Khalifa University Releases Enhanced Flagship Generative AI Platform
Hamad Bin Khalifa University and Boeing Convene Global Leaders to Advance Safe and Sustainable AI
Technology Finally Kills the Thayer Method of Teaching: Troubling Times for Educators
Hamad Bin Khalifa University Spotlights Innovation and Expertise at World Summit AI 2025
‘Frugal AI’: This is How MENA Can Catch Up to Global Tech Race
QCRI Summer Internship Program 2025 Draws Strong Participation
HBKU Hosts Interactive Summer Programs Across Colleges and Research Centers
Events
Testimonials
A cornerstone of Qatar’s National Vision is to transform into a knowledge-based economy; growing our national computing and technology capacity is crucial to make this vision reality.
Dr. Ahmed Elmagarmid
Executive Director