[Source: https://www.hbku.edu.qa/en/student-affairs-office/career-services]
[Title: Student Affairs Career Services | Hamad Bin Khalifa University]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:18:51+00:00]

Student Employment Program
The Student Employment Program provides HBKU students with part-time jobs on campus in order to gain work experience. Students can view and apply for a job through: sep.hbku.edu.qa
Internships & Placement Jobs
SA coordinates with local and international entities for internships and employment.
Entrepreneurship Opportunities
HBKU partners with entrepreneurial organizations that provide workshops focusing on startups and entrepreneurship competitions.
Career Preparation and Professional Workshops
SA provides student workshops to prepare students for employment. The workshops focus on interview skills and general professional skills.
C.V. Writing and Review
SA provides CV review services to HBKU students throughout the year.
Employer Network
The Employer Network is a session where students are given the opportunity to network with employers from different industries, providing them with a range of job opportunities.
Community Classes
HBKU community classes aim to provide excellent training to the local community in various subjects, to enhance essential learning and development.
Community classes provide members of the public with an enriching experience that expands their horizons intellectually, culturally, and personally.
Community Outreach Programs
SA delivers outreach programs and information sessions locally and internationally to both governmental and private institutions, as well as universities. SA participates annually in post-graduate and educational fairs around the globe to promote HBKU.
HBKU Alumni Association
The Alumni Association at HBKU provides a strategic platform to strengthen the interaction with HBKU alumni by fostering programs that are of interest and support the strategic objectives of the university
The Alumni Association works hard to represent the interest of the colleges within the university.
Contact the team
Fahad A. Al-Hajri
Director of Community Outreach & Student Relations