[Source: https://www.wipo.int/en/web/working-at-wipo]
[Title: Working at WIPO]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:22:51+00:00]

Welcome to the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), where we dedicate our time, focus and effort to make intellectual property (IP) work for innovation and creativity for the benefit of everyone, everywhere.
Working with WIPO means being part of a dynamic, specialized United Nations agency at the heart of the intellectual property (IP) world.
Featured
Join WIPO as an intern and gain hands-on experience at the heart of innovation and creativity
Apply through the Internship Roster to contribute to global work across law, economics, technology, administration, and more, in a dynamic international environment while developing practical skills alongside experts.
Find the right job for you at WIPO
Whether you are just starting out or are an experienced professional, our commitment to nurturing talent stands firm. At WIPO, we are crafting opportunities for bright, diverse minds to shine, grow and contribute to a global community that empowers and enables creators and innovators, ensuring their work is protected and celebrated.
Join us at WIPO, where your potential meets our passion for innovation. Together, let's turn ideas into impact, and vision into reality.
Life at WIPO
At WIPO, we foster a mission-driven environment that integrates all voices and perspectives for creativity and innovation. With a focus on well-being, professional growth, and global collaboration, we empower our employees to make a positive impact worldwide.
WIPO Jobs
WIPO’s workforce spans various roles, levels, and appointment types, each reflecting the unique experience and qualifications needed. To ensure your application stands out, make sure you meet the specific requirements for the position you are applying for.
Selection process
At WIPO, we prioritize selecting the most qualified candidates through an effective, impartial, and transparent process. We strive for gender and geographical balance, reflecting the communities we serve.
What we are looking for in our candidates
WIPO looks for candidates from multiple backgrounds, with a variety of skills and types of expertise and who value each unique perspective. Our work requires effective communicators and team players, who interact with good judgement, respect and integrity, and who value diversity in all its forms. To transform our vision into reality, we look for big-picture and out-of-the-box thinkers, who are result and service-oriented, and are committed to continuously developing themselves and colleagues around them. If you are ready to make a difference by embracing change and innovation, come join us at WIPO!
What are WIPO’s values and competencies? [PDF]
Meet some of our colleagues and hear what they have to say
“Engaging directly with clients from various countries is a dynamic and rewarding experience.”
Ji-Hye, Customer Support Assistant, Republic of Korea
“WIPO's commitment to fairness and its core values have provided the ideal environment for me to make IP more accessible.”
Olivier, Information Assistant, Haiti
“Each offers new challenges and learning opportunities in an international environment, while enhancing my skills in project management, cultural sensitivity, and logistical coordination.”
Ihab, Event Producer, Syrian Arab Republic
WIPO offers two job categories
WIPO offers a variety of contract types. Staff positions normally extend over several years, while affiliated personnel positions are time-bound. Benefits vary according to the type of contract. If you are interested in working at WIPO, learn about the terms and conditions that apply to each vacancy before you apply.
Staff positions
If you’re interested in building a career with WIPO, explore vacancies in this category.
General Service staff
Support WIPO’s daily operations and play a vital role in enabling our global mission.
Professionals & Directors
Lead and innovate at WIPO, driving global strategies in intellectual property and creativity.
National Professional Officers
Contribute local expertise to WIPO’s initiatives, bridging global goals with national and regional impact.
Affiliated personnel positions
These contracts are short-term (up to three years).
Internship Program
WIPO offers internship opportunities for students and recent graduates, allowing you to work at the forefront of innovation.
Fellowship Program
WIPO's Fellowship Program offers professionals the chance to explore intellectual property and international cooperation.
Young Experts Program
The WIPO Young Experts Program (YEP) develops the next generation of IP leaders through a 2-year, competitive program.
Individual Contractor Service
WIPO engages external experts for specialized roles. Apply for opportunities both globally and locally, on-site or remote.
Helpful tools for applicants
Access resources and guidance to support your application process and help you succeed.
- Selection process
- Competency-based interview
- Frequent asked questions (FAQs)
- Staff Regulations and Rules [PDF]
Explore our workforce data
Discover insights into WIPO’s workforce and its impact on global innovation.