[Source: https://www.wipo.int/en/web/hague-system]
[Title: Hague System – The International Design System]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:22:51+00:00]

Information: Our website will be undergoing an upgrade on September 23, 2025, from 6.30 a.m. to 8.00 a.m. Geneva time (GMT+2). While some pages may be momentarily unavailable, IP tools will remain available.
What is the Hague System?
- Nationals of…
- Anyone with domicile or habitual residence in…
- Anyone with a real and effective industrial or commercial establishment in…
International design applications are subject to the payment of three types of fees, all payable in Swiss francs (CHF):
- a basic fee (397 CHF for one design; 50 CHF for each additional design included in the same application);
- a publication fee (17 CHF for each reproduction; 150 CHF for each page on which one or more reproductions are shown); and
- a standard designation fee or an individual designation fee for each contracting party where you seek protection. Note: a three-level structure applies to standard designation fees, reflecting the level of examination carried out by the contracting party.
Make the Hague System your next design partner!
How to use the Hague System
The Hague System supports you throughout the lifecycle of your designs, from application for protection through to renewal. Discover how it works!
Searching protected designs
Filing international design applications
Managing international design registrations
eHague – Hague System online services
Use eHague to file your international design applications and manage your registrations.
Useful tools and resources
User guides
- Guide to the Hague System
- Preparing reproductions [PDF]
- Including multiple designs in an international application [PDF]
- Hague System Information Kit
Hague System Members
Tools and tutorials
Legal resources
- Hague System legal texts
- Information notices
- Hague System forms
- History of Hague Regulations [PDF]
- Order certified documents
News
-
Engage with WIPO at INTA’s 2026 Annual Meeting
April 27, 2026
-
Hague System: New Webinars for Q2 2026!
April 7, 2026
WIPO Brands and Designs
Hague System legal and educational resources
Hague System webinars
Designs in action stories
WIPO Design Talks podcast
Hague System working group
Join the Hague System
Interested in becoming a member of the Hague System?
Find out all about how to become a member of the Hague System and what the benefits are.