[Source: https://www.wipo.int/en/web/procurement]
[Title: Procurement]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:22:51+00:00]

Procurement
The Procurement Section is responsible for the acquisition of goods and services for the different programs of WIPO. We have a strategic role in ensuring the agile (effective and efficient), transparent and fair procurement of goods and services, at the best value for money in compliance with WIPO’s Financial Rules and Regulations .
Tenders / contracts
- List of tenders (to have access to the tender document package, please click on the "Express Interest" button)
- List of awarded contracts
- WIPO eSourcing user guide for suppliers
What we procure
WIPO procures a variety of goods and services. The percentage breakdown by value of purchases by category can be found in our purchase statistics .
How we procure
Depending on the nature of the requirement and the estimated contract value, we may use one of the following processes:
Our Competitive Procurement Thresholds are:
≤20,000 CHF Direct purchase
<75,000 CHF Request for quotation
<150,000 CHF Limited tender
>150,000 CHF Open international tender
WIPO recommends that vendors register on the United Nations Global Marketplace (UNGM) portal, where WIPO publishes its open tenders and expressions of interest. You will then be notified if WIPO advertises an opportunity in the area(s) for which you have registered. As a general rule, for purchases with an estimated value of CHF 150,000 or above, tenders are required to be publicly advertised through a Request for Proposal, Invitation to Bid or Expression of Interest. Tenders for less than this value can either be advertised on UNGM or restricted to identified suppliers.
How to work with us
To do business with WIPO, vendors must first register on the United Nations Global Marketplace (UNGM) portal. Registration is simple and free of charge.
For assistance with registration, feel free to contact us.
Ethical Code of Conduct
WIPO has a “zero tolerance” policy for fraud, corruption or related forms of misconduct with respect to its officials. Vendors who are interested in doing business with or already doing business with WIPO are required to comply with the UN Supplier Code of Conduct .
The Code of Conduct prohibits among others extortion; fraud; bribery; conflict of interest; and the solicitation or acceptance of any gratuity, gift, favour, entertainment, loan or anything of value from anyone who conducts business with WIPO. In carrying out its activities, WIPO officials must adhere to the highest standards of efficiency, competence and integrity required from international civil servants. WIPO promotes the UN Global Compact Initiative and sustainable procurement principles and encourages Vendors to embrace these core values.
UN Global Compact Initiative
WIPO promotes the UN Global Compact Initiative and sustainable procurement principles and encourages Vendors to embrace these core values.