[Source: https://www.wipo.int/en/web/ip-statistics]
[Title: Intellectual Property Statistics]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:22:51+00:00]

Intellectual Property Statistics
Reliable intellectual property (IP) statistics are an important tool in understanding trends in policy, business, and technology worldwide.
We cooperate with IP offices from around the world to provide the most up-to-date global IP data. We also publish statistical reports on worldwide IP activity and on the use of WIPO-administered treaties in protecting IP rights internationally.
Intellectual Property Statistics by country
Statistical country profiles provide information on patents, utility models, trademarks and industrial designs. They cover different dimensions of intellectual property (IP) activity, including incoming and outgoing filings, the share of filings in different technological fields, total patents in force, and the use of international IP systems by applicants.
IP Statistics Data Center
WIPO's IP Statistics Data Center is a free online service, which provides access to WIPO’s extensive statistical data on IP activity worldwide. You can search using a wide range of indicators, as well as view or download both the latest and historical data according to your needs.
This service is intended to be a tool for IP professionals, researchers and policymakers worldwide.
Video tutorial
World Intellectual Property Indicators
WIPO's World Intellectual Property Indicators provides an annual overview of activity in the areas of patents, utility models, trademarks, industrial designs, microorganisms, plant variety protection, geographical indications and the creative economy.
World Intellectual Property Indicators 2025
This authoritative report analyzes IP activity around the globe. Drawing on 2024 filing, registration and renewals statistics from national and regional IP offices and WIPO, World Intellectual Property Indicators provides up-to-date information on patents, utility models, trademarks, industrial designs, microorganisms, plant variety protection and geographical indications.
WIPO IP Facts and Figures
WIPO's IP Facts and Figures provides an overview of intellectual property (IP) activity, using the latest available year of complete statistics. It serves as a quick reference guide covering four types of industrial property – patents, utility models, trademarks and industrial designs.
The publication focuses primarily on application data, which is the most frequently-used measure of IP activity. All figures presented within are based on a selection of those reported in WIPO’s more comprehensive World Intellectual Property Indicators.
WIPO IP Facts and Figures 2025
An overview of intellectual property activity based on the latest available year of complete statistics.
DownloadIntellectual Property Yearly Reviews and the Global Publishing Industry
PCT Yearly Review
The PCT Yearly Review presents a set of statistics based on PCT international applications, PCT National Phase entries and the overall performance of the PCT System.
Madrid Yearly Review
The Madrid System Yearly Review gives an overview of the number of international trademark applications recorded via the Madrid System.
Hague Yearly Review
The Hague System Yearly Review gives an overview of the number of international industrial designs.
The Global Publishing Industry in 2022
This report provides a global overview of the publishing industry in 2022, covering both trade and education.
News
Other Intellectual Property Data resources
IPC Concordance Table
The WIPO technology concordance table links the International Patent Classification (IPC) symbols with thirty-five fields of technology. The concordance table is updated on a regular basis to reflect revisions to the IPC.
IP statistics glossary
The IP statistics glossary helps you to better understanding key technical terms and concepts found in IP data.
IP and Economics
IP protection has emerged as an important component of national economic policies. WIPO seeks to contribute to a better understanding of the economic effects of different IP policy choices.
National/regional IP offices
Additional IP data
WIPO publishes hereunder IP statistics datasets too large to be downloaded from the IP Statistics Data Center.
Madrid statistical database
The Madrid statistical database contains bibliographic data of international registrations under the Madrid System. Data from the Madrid System covers more than a hundred countries and offers a unique view into how brands are internationalized. This database has been structured to suit the needs of academic researchers and inform evidence based policymaking utilizing applicant level data.
Madrid statistics
- Global statistics on the Madrid System | Madrid System top applicant list
Hague statistics
- Global statistics on the Hague System | Hague System top applicant list
PCT statistics
- Global statistics on the PCT System | PCT System top applicant list