[Source: https://www.wipo.int/en/web/inventor-assistance-program]
[Title: Inventor Assistance Program (IAP)]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:22:51+00:00]

Inventor Assistance Program in South Africa – Cultivating Innovation for a Global Harvest
March 27, 2026 (Pretoria, South Africa)
Apply as a beneficiary or volunteer on the Online IAP Platform.
Every spark of genius can transform our world. With the right support, inventors translate creativity into progress that benefits everyone. This opportunity should be available to all inventors, regardless of their financial means.
WIPO’s Inventor Assistance Program (IAP) connects individuals and small businesses with qualified professionals who help them navigate the patent system at no cost, increasing the odds of turning innovative ideas into commercial assets.
By empowering underserved inventors, the IAP serves as a catalyst for global innovation, ensuring inventors worldwide have the chance to make a lasting impact.
Participating countries - Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Kenya, Morocco, Pakistan, Peru, the Philippines, Singapore, South Africa.
Individual inventors and small businesses from participating countries who meet the local eligibility criteria determined by each country.
Qualifying inventors receive help securing patents or utility models in their country and internationally, including through the PCT system. Beneficiaries can also get guidance for commercializing patents supported by the Program.
No. The IAP does not provide any direct finance assistance. While volunteers provide their services for free, beneficiaries remain responsible for official patent fees, translation costs, and other out-of-pocket expenses necessary to complete patent applications.
Need professional support to secure a patent? Worried you can’t afford it?
The IAP can help you transform your idea into a commercial asset.
Inventors worldwide need your expertise.
Join our global network of IP experts providing pro bono services and make a meaningful impact using your professional skills.
Unlock innovation in your country and increase the total value of IP assets in the economy.
The IAP helps develop your innovation ecosystem and ultimately transform local creativity into a new source of revenue, jobs and inspiration.
Want to help make inclusive innovation a reality?
Partner with the IAP to close the innovation gap by expanding the Program’s reach and impact.
IAP participating countries
beneficiaries helped
patent applications filed
patents granted
March 27, 2026 (Pretoria, South Africa)
March 25, 2026 (Lima, Peru)
September 16 to September 17, 2025 (Geneva, Switzerland)