[Source: https://www.wipo.int/en/web/awards/global]
[Title: WIPO Global Awards]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:22:51+00:00]

WIPO Global Awards
We celebrate and support small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and startups that use IP to grow their business and contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Why should you apply to the WIPO Global Awards
«The WIPO Global Awards provided valuable support that proved highly fruitful for the deals we secured.»
Alexis von Tschammer, CEO, Lactips. Lactips raised €16 million and now plans to scale across Europe, the Americas and Japan.
«The WIPO Global Awards provided valuable support that proved highly
fruitful for the deals we secured.»Alexis von Tschammer, CEO, Lactips. Lactips raised €16 million and now plans to scale across Europe, the Americas and Japan.
Gain global recognition and visibility
- Be celebrated in Geneva in front of leaders from 194 countries.
- Gain international media exposure.
- Receive promotional material to increase your company credibility.
Receive acceleration & strategic business support
- Access an exclusive 2-day workshop on IP and Business.
- Benefit from a six-month tailored 1:1 mentoring package.
- Attend year-round online fireside chats with experts.
Have access to exclusive networking opportunities
- Access exclusive benefits from our Ecosystem Partners: investors, corporates, accelerators, tradeshows and service providers.
- Join the WIPO Global Awards Alumni Community: 100+ business pioneers turning intellectual property into real-world impact.
How to apply to the WIPO Global Awards
You can apply if your business:
- Is legally registered
- Has a maximum of 300 employees and USD 15M in annual revenue
- Offers an innovative product or service linked to IP
- Holds at least one pending (for startups) or registered (for SMEs) IP right
- Shows early-market activity (for startups) or commercial traction (for SMEs)
Evaluation by an independent international jury
Previous WIPO Global Awards Winners
Hummingbird Bioscience — Singapore
Health / SME
Antibody therapeutics
Glovatrix — India
Health / Startup
Sign-to-speech gloves
Carbfix — Iceland
Environment / SME
CO₂ mineral storage
Smart Drain - Urban Inventors — Sri Lanka
Environment / Startup
Anti-flood drain system
PhageLab — Chile
Agrifood / SME
Antibiotic alternatives
Planetary — Switzerland
Agrifood / Startup
Mycoprotein fermentation tech
ClicknClear — United Kingdom
Creative Industries / SME
Music rights licensing
CodeGream — Republic of Korea
Creative Industries / Startup
3D product showcase
Unitree Robotics — China
ICT / SME
Quadruped robotics
Quinas Technology — United Kingdom
ICT / Startup
Next-gen memory chips
AETECH — Republic of Korea
Greentech & Circular economy
AI waste-sorting system
Farmer Lifeline Technologies — Kenya
Greentech & Agrifood
AI pests detecting system for crops
Healinno Tech — China
Health
Waterjet surgical robot for BPH
Laboratorios Quimica Luar — Argentina
Health
Inhalable ibuprofen-based formulation
Meticuly — Thailand
Health
3D printed bone replacements
PONS Technology — Türkiye
Health
Scans outside of hospital settings
Qnami — Switzerland
ICT
Quantum diamond microscope technology
ScansX — Kuwait
Health
Brain scanner for early signs of tumors
VIVO Surgical — Singapore
Health
High-precision surgical tools
Aerosol — Slovenia
Health & Environment
Air quality measurement instruments
CRQM — Mexico
Health Tech, Services & Research
Nanotechnology platform for retinal drug delivery
Flexxon — Singapore
Cybersecurity Hardware & Software
AI-powered solutions against real-time ransom attacks
Lactips — France
Green Solutions
Plastic-free technology that is fully biodegradable
Westwell — China
Green Solutions
Intelligent and eco-friendly solutions for bulk logistics
KissFuture — China
Virtual Reality Technology
Immersive solutions for cinemas and cultural institutions
Yakwetu — Kenya
Entertainment Technology
Digital content distribution combatting piracy
Hydraloop — Netherlands
Green Solutions
Designs and produces decentralized water recycling products
Raycan — China
Health Services & Research
Medical imaging technology
Lucence — Singapore
Health Technology & Research
Early detection and treatment of cancer
Shylon — China
Green Solutions
Energy-saving lights for indoor and outdoor use
Splink — Japan
Health Technology
Diagnosis of dementia and other neurodegenerative diseases
Success stories for the WIPO Global Awards winners
- saved up to 50% of their IP budget
- upgraded their IP portfolios and commercial strategies
- gained visibility inside the UN system
- accessed new international markets
- secured new investors, clients, and partners
«This Award validated years of hard work and opened doors to the global IP community.»
Chantal Epp, CEO of ClicknClear, Winner 2025
«The mentorship allowed us to save up to 50% on our IP budget […] an immense advantage for our startup.»
Yilun Shi, CEO of Healinno Tech, Winner 2024
«We’ve learned to prioritize one tangible IP outcome with a cost-effective approach, paving the way for us to file our first trademark next week.»
Soner Haci, CEO of PONS, Winner 2024
WIPO Global Awards ecosystem partners
News
-
Carbon One: long-lasting battery technology
March 19, 2026