[Source: https://www.ensia.edu.dz/critical-thinking-and-creativity-skills/]
[Title: Critical Thinking and Creativity Skills]
[Language: en]
[Modified: 2023-11-01T14:16:38]

Semestre 1, CP
VHS
C/TD/TP
VHH Total
C/TD/TP
V.H. Hebdomadaire
Coef
Crédits
C
TD
TP
UE Transversales 1.1
22.5
1.5
0.75
0.75
1
3
Course Description:
This course introduces students to brain main functions, patterns of thinking, ideas generating, evaluating, implementing, and problem solving strategies and techniques. Furthermore, the students will be exposed to different blocks to critical thinking and creativity, and how to overcome them. This course is more practical than theoretical which enables students to develop their creative and innovative mind set. In addition, digital creativity will be highlighted, and direct students to develop it.
Prerequisite :
None
Evaluation Method :
Coursework (40 %) + Final Exam (60%)
Course Content
Introduction: Importance of skills for future employment. Importance of creativity and critical thinking as soft skills.
The brain's main structure: left brain – right brain – upper brain – lower brain.
The brain main functions: Left and right brain functions, upper and lower brain functions.
The concept of Four-Quadrant Brain Model of Thinking Preferences”
The Whole Brain concept.
Relationship between the brain & skills.
The Concept of Brain Dominance
How does the “Four-Quadrant Model” relate to the physical brain?
How to develop creative problem solving?
Divergent & convergent thinking
How to improve students’ critical thinking skills?
Critical thinking barriers, and how to overcome them.
Creative thinking barriers, and how to overcome them.
Digital Creativity
References
العياصرة، وليد رفيق. (2011). التفكير الناقد واستراتيجيات تعليمه. دار أسامة للنشر والتوزيع، الأردن.
عشوي، مصطفى وآخرون. (2021). مهارات التفكير النقدي لدى طلاب الجامعات العربية: دراسة ميدانية مقارنة. شركة الأصالة للنشر. الجزائر.
Bruce, N. W. (2012). Critical Thinking. 6 th Ed. Pearson, Boston.
Foresman, A. G.& Fosl, S. P.; Watson, C. J. (2017). The Critical Thinking . Wiley Blackwell. USA.
Joe, Y. F Law (2011). An Introduction to Critical Thinking and Creativity. Wiley Company.
Lumsdaine, E.; Lumsdaine, M. (1995). Creative problem Solving. McGraw Hill Company. New York.
Proctor, T. (2021). Absolute Essentials of Creative Thinking and Problem Solving. Rutledge, London.
Smith, C. J. (2018). Critical Thinking. Second Edition, Wiley Blackwell, New Jersey.