[Source: https://www.ensia.edu.dz/software-engineering/]
[Title: Software Engineering]
[Language: en]
[Modified: 2024-07-14T14:17:25]

Module : Software Engineering

Semestre 5 SC

VHS
C/TD/TP

VHH Total
C/TD/TP

V.H. Hebdomadaire

Coef

Crédits

C

TD

TP

UE Methodologiques 5.1

67.5

4.5

1.5

1.5

1.5

3

5

Course Description :

Successful software development depends on an in-depth understanding of how the phases and supporting activities of the software development life cycle work together. Each phase of the life cycle contributes to a reliable, maintainable product that satisfies user requirements. The application of good engineering practices throughout the cycle dramatically improves the likelihood of delivering a quality software project on time, in scope and within budget. While there are many rigorous methodologies, in fact most approaches and tools have a mixture of strengths and weaknesses.

The main objectives of the course are as follows:

Describe and compare various software development methods and understand the context in which each approach might be applicable.

Develop students’ critical skills to distinguish sound development practices from ad hoc practices, judge which technique would be most appropriate for solving large-scale software problems, and articulate the benefits of applying sound practices.

Expand students’ familiarity with mainstream languages used to model and analyse object designs (e.g., UML).

Prerequisite :
Introduction to Programming

Evaluation Method :
Coursework (40%) + Final Exam (60%)

Course Content

Introduction

Software processes

Agile Methodologies

Requirements engineering

System modelling : Behavioural Modelling

System modelling : Structural Modelling

Architectural design

Design and implementation

Software Testing

Software Integration and Delivery

Software Maintenance

Advanced Topics In Software Engineering

References

Ian Sommerville. Software Engineering, Pearson Edition, 2015.

Roger S. Pressman, Bruce Maxim. Software Engineering: A Practitioner’s Approach 8th Edition, McGraw Hill, 2014.

Stephens, Rod. Beginning software engineering, Wrox, a Wiley Brand, 2015.

Systems Analysis and Design: An Object-Oriented Approach with UML 6th Edition, Alan Dennis, Barbara Wixom, David Tegarden, Wiley, 2020.

Kim, G., Humble, J., Debois, P., Willis, J., & Forsgren, N. The DevOps handbook: How to create world-class agility, reliability, & security in technology organizations. IT Revolution. 2021