[Source: https://www.ensia.edu.dz/time-series-analysis-and-classification/]
[Title: Time Series Analysis and Classification]
[Language: en]
[Modified: 2024-07-14T14:20:35]

Module : Time Series Analysis and Classification

Semestre 6 SC

VHS
C/TD/TP

VHH Total
C/TD/TP

V.H. Hebdomadaire

Coef

Crédits

C

TD

TP

UE Methodologiques 6.1

52.5

3.5

1.5

1.5

0.5

3

5

Course Description:

This course will provide an introduction to time series analysis and its applications in various fields such as finance, engineering, and economics. We will first explore the fundamental concepts and techniques used to analyse time series data, including time series models, spectral analysis, time-frequency representation, and multivariate time series.

We will then discuss time series classification as well as pattern recognition and anomaly detection. We will explore different methods such as Graphical models, dynamic time warping (DTW).

Overall, this course will provide a comprehensive overview of time series analysis and its applications, including both theoretical and practical aspects of the subject matter.

Prerequisite :
Probability and Statistical Inference, Machine Learning

Evaluation Method :
Coursework (40 %) + Final Exam (60%)

Course Content

Part 1 Time series Analysis

Introduction

Time Series Models

Spectral analysis

Time-frequency representation

Multivariate Time Series

Part 2 Time Series Classification

Pattern Recognition and Detection

Feature Extraction and Selection

Models and Representation Learning

Data Enhancement and Preprocessings

Change-Point and Anomaly Detection

References

Box G.E., Jenkins G.M., Reinsel G.C, Time series analysis: forecasting and control, John ,2011, Wiley & Sons.

P. J. Brockwell; Davies R.A. Introduction to Time Series and Forecasting. 2nd ed. Springer. 2002

Percival D.B., Walden A.T. , Wavelet methods for time series analysis , 2000, Cambridge university press.

Lütkepohl H., New Introduction to Multiple Time Series Analysis, 2006, Springer

Charu C. Aggarwal, Data Mining: The Textbook, 2015, Springer