[Source: https://www.ensia.edu.dz/introduction-to-mobile-robotics/]
[Title: Introduction to Mobile Robotics]
[Language: en]
[Modified: 2024-07-14T14:23:31]

Module : Introduction to Mobile Robotics

Semestre 7 SC

VHS
C/TD/TP

VHH Total
C/TD/TP

V.H. Hebdomadaire

Coef

Crédits

C

TD

TP

UE Methodologiques 7.1

67.5

4.5

1.5

1.5

1.5

2

5

Course Description:

This course provides a general understanding of mobile robotics and related concepts, covering topics such as sensing, computer vision (i.e., visual perception), state estimation (e.g., localisation and mapping) and motion planning. The emphasis is on algorithms, probabilistic reasoning, optimization, inference mechanisms, and behaviour strategies, as opposed to electromechanical systems design. Practically useful tools and simulators for developing real robotic systems will also be covered in this course.

At the end of the course, students will develop sufficient skills in the analysis of predominant mobile robots, being able to understand the visual perception and navigation system for a self-driving car

Prerequisite :

Evaluation Method :
Coursework (40 %) + Final Exam (60%)

Course Content

Introduction of Robotics: concept, use cases, and system architecture on sensing, perception & control. Ethical and privacy implications of robots.

Robot Motion Model: Coordinate transformations and Representation of Rotations; Forward kinematics.

Sensor Model and Measurement: Proprioceptive and exteroceptive models; a case study with cameras, lidar, radar, ultrasonic, inertia etc.

Recursive State Estimation: Kalman filters, EKF etc.

Localization & Tracking: Monte Carlo Localization, Ranging based Triangulation, Fingerprinting etc.

Mapping: environment model, grid map.

Robot Operating System: basic principles, use cases, and examples.

SLAM: Framework & systems, loop closing, pose graph optimization.

Planning and Navigation: Obstacle avoidance, Path planning, receding horizon control.

Self-driving Car Development Platform.

Basic Control Theory for Robotics: Open-loop and closed-loop control. Basic Idea on PID control.

References

Bongard, Josh. “Probabilistic robotics. Sebastian Thrun, Wolfram Burgard, and Dieter Fox. (2005, MIT Press.).

Ulrich Nehmzoe, Mobile Robotics: A Practical Introduction, 2nd Edition

Robin R. Murphy, Introduction to AI Robotics, MIT Press, 2000, ISBN: 0262133830