[Source: https://www.ensia.edu.dz/speech-processing/]
[Title: Speech Processing]
[Language: en]
[Modified: 2024-07-14T14:27:08]

Module : Speech Processing

Semestre 8 SC

VHS
C/TD/TP

VHH Total
C/TD/TP

V.H. Hebdomadaire

Coef

Crédits

C

TD

TP

UE Methodologiques 8.1

45

3

1.5

1.5

3

4

Course Description:

This course introduces students to the rapidly developing field of speech processing which includes automatic speech recognition. Speech Processing offers a practical and theoretical understanding of how human speech can be processed by computers. It covers speech recognition, speech synthesis and spoken dialog systems. The course involves practicals where the student will build working speech recognition systems, build their own synthetic voice and build a complete telephone spoken dialog system. This work will be based on existing toolkits. Details of algorithms, techniques and limitations of state-of-the-art speech systems will also be presented. This course is designed for students wishing to understand how to process real data for real applications, applying statistical and machine learning techniques as well as working with limitations in the technology.

Prerequisite :
 Machine learning, data mining, advanced programming

Evaluation Method :
Coursework (40 %) + Final Exam (60%)

Course Content

Introduction

Mathematical foundations

Signals and transforms

Digital filters Probability

Statistics and estimation theory

Speech analysis and coding

Short-time Fourier analysis and synthesis

Linear prediction of speech

Source estimation

Cepstral analysis

Speech and speaker recognition

Template matching

Hidden Markov models and Refinements for HMMs

Large vocabulary continuous speech recognition

The HTK speech recognition system

Speaker recognition

Speech synthesis and modification

Text-to-speech

Prosodic modification of speech

Voice conversion

References

Huang, Acero, and Hon.
Spoken Language Processing
. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2001.

 Frederick Jelinek.
Statistical Methods for Speech Recognition
. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press, 1998.