[Source: https://github.com/resources/articles?topic=security]
[Title: GitHub Articles • Technical Guides, Developer Insights & Best Practices · GitHub]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:17:41+00:00]

GitHub Articles
What is static application security testing (SAST)?
SAST enables developers to uncover security threats earlier in the development process, thereby safeguarding an application’s successful deployment.
What is software composition analysis (SCA)?
Discover how software composition analysis (SCA) tools improve the security, quality, and efficiency of your open source software.
What is risk-based vulnerability management (RBVM)?
Discover how risk-based vulnerability management (RBVM) helps organizations focus on the most critical security risks to optimize protection and allocate resources effectively.
What is a Data Breach?
Discover how data breaches occur, their impact on businesses, and the industries most at risk. Learn about common attack methods and tools and best practices for securing sensitive data.
What is a software bill of materials (SBOM)?
Software is built in layers. An SBOM shows what’s inside—so you can secure it.
What is AIOps?
AI for IT operations (AIOps) uses AI to help IT teams reduce downtime and scale operations.
What is application modernization?
Boost performance, strengthen security, and help developers ship faster by modernizing legacy systems.
What is vulnerability scanning?
Vulnerability scanning is a proactive security assessment process that’s used to identify security weaknesses and vulnerabilities within software applications, networks, or systems. Vulnerability scanners are software applications that automatically scan and assess various aspects of systems, devices, code, configurations, and dependencies connected to a network, as well as operating systems running on those devices and related attributes like user accounts and permissions, services, and open ports.
What is threat modeling?
Threat modeling is a structured approach to identifying, analyzing, and mitigating security risks in software applications and IT systems before they become vulnerabilities.
What is software supply chain security?
Learn how software supply chain security helps organizations protect the safety, reliability, and integrity of their software supply chains from cybersecurity threats.
What is shift left?
Shift left is a pivotal practice in software development that reduces costs, drives efficiency, and strengthens application security across the software development lifecycle. Discover how this approach helps teams find and fix software issues early, accelerating development, and improving software quality.
What is security testing?
Read this guide to learn about the types of security testing along with best practices and trends for greater software security. You’ll explore the role of automated security testing tools, including AI-powered tools, and see the importance of incorporating security testing into every phase of software development.