[Source: https://www.interaction-design.org/about/careers]
[Title: Come Work With IxDF | IxDF]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:22:11+00:00]

Join Us and Help Make
a Dent in the Universe
We've spent the last 24 years building a fully remote culture that brings out the best in people. You'll join a work environment where you have the freedom and responsibility to become the best version of yourself.
With great freedom and power comes great responsibility. The freedom of remote work and a trust-based culture place significant responsibility on your shoulders, so remote work isn't for everyone.
But if you have strong self-discipline and a genuine passion for your craft, you'll thrive in an environment free from distractions and full of trust.
A Culture Built for High Performers With Heart
IxDF is built for people who care about their craft, character, and contribution. If that sounds like you, here's what you can expect:
- Join a culture where excellence is contagious. You'll be surrounded by people who strive for excellence, lift each other up, and expect the same from you. We aim high and win together, never at each other's expense.
- Work alongside people with social intelligence and empathy, who'll encourage you, support you, and cheer for you.
- Work with people who have a hands-on attitude and a bias towards action as opposed to corporate, fluff-filled slide-deck fantasies. If “getting stuff done” is your middle name and mediocrity drains your soul, you'll feel right at home.
- Finally forget the corporate circus of power games, soul-draining politics and manager-pleasing look-busy rituals. Your colleagues value your character, work ethic, and what you actually achieve. Substance over noise.
Life at IxDF
Make a Dent in The Universe
You'll help millions of learners improve their lives.
24 Years Experience
We've spent 24 years building a thriving all-remote culture.
Your Work Does the Talking
No corporate politics. We judge you on your results.
Amazing Team Trips
A team that gets together, stays together. We meet up at spectacular locations.
Multicultural By Design
Work with the best from around the world.
Uninterrupted Concentration Time
You'll be able to do "deep work" and hone your craft.
Ambitious Colleagues
Colleagues with ambitions and intelligence, but no egos or elbows.
Introverts Are Welcome
You'll thrive as an introvert, just like your extroverted colleagues.
Built for Doers
We thrive on action, ownership, and people who get things done.
Social, Not Intrusive, Culture
We're social without interrupting each other.
Zero Bureaucracy
You'll have absolutely zero bureaucracy.
Paid, Flexible Holidays
Enjoy paid holidays you can take whenever you like.
A Focus on Results
You'll work in an atmosphere of "getting stuff done".
Be Who You Are
Be Who You Are – no matter skin color, religion, etc.
Work Remotely
Work remotely with self-discipline and conscientiousness.
Marathon Stipend
Want to run a marathon? We'll pay for flight, food and fees.
Our Team Trips: In Photos
Quotes That Reflect Our Work Culture
Jason Fried
Abraham Maslow
Pele
John F. Kennedy
Jim Watkins
Ernest Hemingway
Open Positions
We're always eager to meet passionate, result-driven people. Even when we're not actively hiring. Can't wait to hear from you!
Development
Education and Editorial
How to Apply
Are you a high performer with heart who wants to help millions of people design better lives?
Then we'd love to meet you!
Find Out How to Join Our Team