[Source: https://www.interaction-design.org/corporate]
[Title: Train your teams with us | IxDF]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:22:11+00:00]

Make Your Products
More
, Profitable Through Design, User-Centric, Customer-Centric, Engaging Through Design, Future-Proof
Online Design Training, Tailored to Your
Organization's Goals
Increase Your Profits With Design-Centricity
Why do design-driven companies consistently grow twice as much as the industry average? It's because excellent customer experience is a critical ingredient of marketplace success.
With Company Memberships at the IxDF, you can empower every department in your organization by making great design and customer experience a part of your company's DNA.
*The Design Management Institute's Design Value Index (DVI)
Company Memberships come with tailored training paths, designed to suit the unique needs of your company. Your customized training agenda will unite every function—such as front-end developers, product managers, marketers and more—under a centralized, design-centric mission to create better products for your users.
Time for What's Important
A dashboard with billing, enrollment, and progress tracking removes administrative drudgery.
Learn moreResources Ready for Your Team
Library of downloadable templates that your team can directly use.
Learn moreExpert Help With a Global Perspective
Our global design community is available to help with your design problems.
Learn moreSavings at Scale
Your team members get unlimited access to courses. By avoiding paying per course, per employee, you'll save thousands of dollars.
Learn moreYou're in Great Company
These industry leaders train their teams in UX design with our Company Membership.
Have an Enterprise-Level Requirement?
We support company-wide design training needs for large, multinational corporations like IBM, Cigna, Accenture and more.
Membership Support at All Times
Company Memberships get priority support — that's a real person you can reach out to. Get help with:
Creating tailored IxDF Career Programs for every job role and department
Tracking and reporting your team members' progress and completion rates
Inviting and enrolling new team members
Assisting with billing queries
Training That Fits Any Schedule
Training should not conflict with your team members' schedules, or take them out of the office. That's why our training is 100% online and self-paced.
Once enrolled, your team members gain access to a new training module each week, which they are free to complete without any deadlines.
Training that fits every team member's schedule, not the other way around
Online programs available on any device
Silicon Valley Expertise
When your teams are enrolled in training with us, they'll learn from established experts—the best instructors you can possibly find. Our expert faculty includes:
Besides training your teams in the fundamentals of Customer Experience and UX / UI design, they'll also dive deep into design thinking, psychology and emotional design. This variety of programs ensures that your Company Membership can bring value not just to design specialists, but product managers, front-end developers and marketers too.
You Get 9 Career Programs
We offer 9 Career Programs, covering the full spectrum from career switcher to design leader.
Choose a Career Program
Training Management, Simplified
We've made training management simple and straightforward.
Your dashboard centralizes billing, reporting, and enrollment. Say goodbye to collating multiple invoices, tracking individual progress and exhausting paperwork.
Exclusive, Ready-To-Use Resources
Solving a business problem is not about reinventing the wheel, but rather finding the optimal solution that satisfies your needs. That's why we provide a large compendium of downloadable templates, which your team is free to use—even for commercial purposes.
Connect Online and Face-to-Face With Our Global Community of Designers
When your team is faced with a challenging problem, sometimes they need a fresh pair of eyes. At the IxDF, you can find thousands of helpful designers in our global community.
With IxDF meetups in hundreds of cities all over the world, you and your team can easily connect with professionals near you and get help.
Use our members-only forums to get valuable input from designers around the world.
Head to a design meetup to have an in-depth conversation with designers nearby.
Save More. Train More.
When your organization has to pay for every course each employee takes, the costs of training can skyrocket. That's why, unlike other training providers, we offer a flat membership fee, regardless of how many courses your team members are taking.
This translates to increased cost savings as your team learns more (think of it as our way of rewarding learning). Our flat pricing model comes from our core belief as a foundation—that effective training is a long-term process, not something you achieve with a one-week crash course.
You don't want your team to improve; you want them to constantly improve, again and again. That's what growth is all about.
Ready to Become a Truly Design-Centric Company?
Creating tailored IxDF Career Programs for every job role and department
Learn Great Design from experts in self-paced online courses.
Get help from our global community with IxDF meetups in 495 cities.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
What kind of payment options do you provide?
You can make payments using Visa, Mastercard, and American Express.
We also offer payment options through PayPal, Google Pay, Apple Pay, and Amazon Pay in select locations.
For large accounts, we can send an invoice via email, which your finance team can pay through a regular bank transfer. For more information on this, please contact us at [email protected].
Can the members of our account take more than one course at a time?
Yes.
Employees enrolled in Company Memberships can take as many courses as they want during their membership period. There are no further charges. The more they learn, the more you save.
Can we modify our Company Membership Plan later?
No problem at all.
Even after setting up your Company Membership, you can assign new Supervisors and Coordinators and add new members whenever you want.
Feel free to send an email to [email protected], and we will happily walk you through the process!
Can Company Membership Supervisors and Coordinators check employee compliance—i.e., can they see how active other company members are?
For Company Memberships, the unique dashboard provides the assigned Supervisors and Coordinators with an overview of the progress of all enrolled employees, including:
Total number of seats used
Total accumulated learning hours
Total course enrollments and completions
Total of how many members have enrolled in local groups
Additionally, the built-in leaderboard shows the rankings within your team or enterprise on:
Total learning hours
Total course points
Total course completions
For a more in-depth view of a member’s progress, a detailed dashboard allows Supervisors and Coordinators to see per-member learning hours on a weekly basis and in total. The advanced dashboard also details course enrollments and completions.
Supervisors and Coordinators can additionally check the compliance of members and their activity level through course certificates and distinctions.
Supervisors and coordinators cannot read the individual course answers submitted by an employee, or see their day-to-day progress in a given course, but the result of their activities, i.e. course certificates and distinctions, is always visible on the dashboards.
How many members do we need to create a Company Membership?
To get the best benefit from a Company Membership, you should sign up at least 5 colleagues. However, the minimum number of people for a Company Membership is 2.
If multiple colleagues have existing individual memberships within our community, we can easily merge these accounts into a Company Membership – just reach out to us at [email protected] to set this up for you.
How can we manage our company membership?
As soon as your Company Membership is set up, you can assign roles with admin rights (Supervisors and Coordinators), who can use the comprehensive dashboard to:
Add more colleagues to the Membership
Promote any enrolled colleagues to roles with admin rights
Remove colleagues from the Membership if they leave your enterprise or switch roles within teams
Manage all billing activities — e.g., add or delete a payment method
Furthermore, you can send us an email at [email protected], and we will help you with any aspect of your account.
Are your courses only offered online?
Yes, our course material is 100% online and self-paced. However, there are many ways in which the IxDF's UX design training can be applied on-ground too. For example, we offer group exercises inside each of our courses to learn from and with your peers.
Additionally, our discussion forums enable members to engage with a worldwide community of design professionals, fostering a deeper understanding of our content and addressing real-world business challenges. You'll also have the opportunity to participate in local meet-ups held in over 450 cities, and you're welcome to host one yourself!
How can my colleagues and I apply the training we receive from our IxDF Company Membership?
During training at IxDF, we design courses that encourage you and your colleagues to complete exercises within the context of your current work, rather than relying on ‘textbook examples’. This way, our training material constantly pushes members to apply new-found knowledge to daily business challenges.
Does my Company Membership come with any support?
Every Company Account is entitled to priority support.
Please feel free to reach out to our support team for assistance in addressing billing and membership queries, as well as for valuable tips to optimize your membership.
Is there a way to keep everyone enrolled in my Company's Membership engaged in the coursework?
Sure, we will provide you with many resources to keep all enrolled members motivated and on track with their respective agendas. Your Supervisors and Coordinators will have visibility into the progress of every enrolled employee, eliminating any uncertainty about individual learning journeys.
How can I decide which courses are right for my team/colleagues?
Depending on your organization's goals, we will be able to suggest a learning path that caters to your training objectives. We focus on learning paths that accommodate all your colleagues, even if your team has the most diverse cross-functional roles.
Throughout your membership, you will also be advised if any new courses suit your objectives.
Furthermore, every enrolled member has unlimited access to all Interaction Design Foundation courses, so you can rest assured that learning is limitless.
In a Company Membership, can users be rotated? For example, can different employees use 3 months each of one user’s yearly membership?
Unfortunately, no.
User profiles and progress are not transferable within Company Memberships, meaning that when a single user is signed up within such a membership, they are enrolled for a year. You will also not be able to remove a member in order to “free up” a space for another colleague. In other words, one user’s yearly access to courses cannot be used by multiple people.
With the incredible savings you obtain from the Interaction Design Foundation’s flat-fee pricing, it still remains highly cost-effective to add new users individually to your membership. Get in touch with us to find out how.
What types of job roles are Interaction Design Foundation Company Memberships intended for?
How much time do my colleagues and I have to set aside to finish a course?
As much time as you need. After you and your colleagues enroll in a course, a new chapter is released every week, but there are no deadlines or course end dates, so you can complete any course at your own pace. Your courses won’t get in the way of your busy schedule, and vice versa.
What are the roles (Learner, Supervisor, Coordinator) in a Company Membership?
Company memberships have three roles: Learner, Supervisor and Coordinator. What you can do in a Company Membership will depend on the role assigned to you.
Learner: Can enroll in courses and use the platform normally. They don’t have any administrative rights and occupy a seat.
Supervisor: Can enroll in courses and use the platform normally. They do have administrative privileges and also occupy a seat.
Coordinator: This role is solely for admin purposes. They cannot enroll in any courses, and they do not occupy a seat.
For a comparison chart, you can check the image below:
Can I get my manager to pay for my membership?
- Get approval from your manager (e.g., using the email template below).
- Pay with your credit card (either your own or your corporate credit card).
- Your invoice will be ready instantly — and we can modify it to meet your manager's requirements.
- Our 14-day money-back guarantee protects you and your manager.
I would like to get reimbursement for my Interaction Design Foundation membership. This membership can benefit our team and company in the following ways:
- I can enroll in all the IxDF’s self-paced, online courses (in my spare time), which will help me complete current projects with better results.
- I can network with peers from all over the world and find out how others have addressed issues we are currently facing.
- I will be able to continuously educate myself on UX topics through the IxDF's courses and eBooks.
- Because of the breadth of educational materials, I will learn how to solve specific design problems.
- I want to offer to share the key takeaways from the courses with my team.