[Source: https://www.interaction-design.org/literature/topics/assumptions]
[Title: What are Assumptions? — updated 2026 | IxDF]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:22:11+00:00]

Assumptions are beliefs or views that designers hold about their users, the context of use or the user goals. They usually come from past experiences, industry knowledge or personal intuition. Assumptions serve as a starting point for design decisions but can sometimes be misleading if designers do not validate or challenge them, hence why testing is vital.
Don Norman: Father of User Experience design, author of the legendary book The Design of Everyday Things, co-founder of the Nielsen Norman Group, and former VP of the Advanced Technology Group at Apple, explains the 5 Whys method, a powerful tool to dig deep and investigate causes—and assumptions.
How to Understand Design Assumptions
The most important aspect of assumptions in user experience design (UX design) is how designers can hold them to be true without concrete evidence or validation. Designers often base assumptions on past experiences, personal biases or limited information. Assumptions are often too close to designers’ minds for them to recognize them as such. One of the greatest risks in design is that designers can take them for granted as facts. Designers make assumptions about users, their needs, behaviors and the context in which these users will interact with a product or service.
Assumptions can influence the entire design process—from how designers define the problem to how they create solutions. They can shape the direction of a project, guide design decisions and impact the overall user experience. However, it's essential to recognize that assumptions are not facts. While they can hold benefits, they can also lead to design solutions that do not meet user needs or expectations. This is why designers need to be aware of them—and challenge them as needed.
What are The Benefits of Assumptions in UX Design?
Here are reasons that assumptions can be useful:
Efficiency: Assumptions allow designers to move forward in their process and not become stuck in analysis paralysis. They provide a foundation for designers to make progress and test ideas. They permit designers to make initial decisions and proceed in their work, and can be useful when there’s limited time or resources available. In fast-paced environments, designers may need to rely on assumptions to make progress quickly. Also, assumptions can act as temporary placeholders until more information becomes available.
Creativity: Assumptions can spark creativity as they encourage designers to think outside the box and consider alternative solutions to problems. When designers assume things, they can help to generate ideas, set goals and create prototypes for testing.
Author and Human-Computer Interaction Expert, Professor Alan Dix explains the value of out-of-the-box thinking:
Hypothesis generation: Designers’ assumptions can lead to the formulation of hypotheses that designers can test and validate through user research and feedback.
Risk management: While unchecked assumptions can be risky, when designers acknowledge and test assumptions, they can help identify potential pitfalls early in the design process and confirm valid assumptions about important matters.
Iterative process: Assumptions can serve as a starting point for iteration and refinement based on user feedback and real-world data. Assumptions also play a role in collaboration and communication within design teams. They serve as a basis for discussions and help align team members' understanding of the design problem and potential solutions. However, it's crucial for designers—and other stakeholders involved in a design project—to remember to state assumptions explicitly and leave them open to examination and validation.
CEO of Experience Dynamics, Frank Spillers explains a solid strategy before designers begin on a project, so they can take an outside-in approach rather than design based on assumptions about users:
What are The Risks When Designers Rely on Assumptions?
While assumptions can be helpful in the design process, designers who rely solely on them without proper validation can cause significant risks to design projects. Some hazards associated with assumptions are if designers:
Design for the wrong user: If designers assume who their target users are and what they need in digital products, they might design for a user persona that doesn't align with the actual users of the final product. This can result in a poor user experience and low adoption rates. It's important for UX designers to rely on user research and data-driven insights rather than assumptions. That way, they can identify the exact target audience and create effective and user-centric designs for them.
Professor Alan Dix explains the significance of personas in design:
Create irrelevant or unusable features: To assume that certain features are essential and not validate them can lead to the creation of unnecessary or confusing features. These features may not solve users' actual problems or may add complexity to the user interface.
Waste time and resources: To design on the basis of assumptions without proper validation all-too often results in waste. Designers and their design teams might spend a great deal on developing features or solutions that don't meet user needs or expectations. This can delay the product's release or require costly revisions until the product focuses on the user.
Miss out on valuable insights: If designers rely on assumptions, they may not discover valuable insights about user behavior, preferences and needs. If they don’t conduct adequate user research or testing, they will likely miss opportunities to improve the user experience and create more successful products. This also applies to service design.
Kendra Shimmell, Service Design Expert and Senior Director of User Research at Twitch explains the importance of research in service design:
Experience difficulty in iteration: When designers or design teams prove assumptions to be wrong, it can be challenging to iterate and improve the design without starting from scratch. This can lead to delays and increased costs.
Cause a negative impact on brand perception: If assumptions lead to a subpar user experience, it can negatively impact how users perceive the brand or product. Be it a website, mobile app, service or other item, once the brand loses credibility, it can be extremely hard to restore in the marketplace and popular psyche.
To minimize these risks, it's crucial for designers to challenge their assumptions in their early design phases. For instance, a designer might assume that users prefer a simple and minimalistic interface based on the trend in the industry. However, this might not hold for all users. Some might find such an interface confusing and challenging to navigate, leading to a negative user experience. Unless the right type of user research catches it early, the UX designer’s work and efforts—along with the efforts of any project managers, developers and other stakeholders—will be wasted.
Watch as UX Strategist and Consultant, William Hudson explains the importance of user research:
Examples of Assumptions in UX Design
Some common examples include those about:
User needs: Assumptions about user needs can significantly influence the design of a product. For example, a designer might assume that users need a feature that automatically sorts their emails. However, this might not be a need for all users, and some might even find it annoying.
User goals: Similarly, assumptions about user goals can also impact the design. For example, a designer might assume that users want to complete a task as quickly as possible. However, some users might prioritize accuracy over speed.
User behavior: Designers may assume how users will interact with a product based on their own experiences or biases. Or they might assume users will act in the same way. For instance, a designer might assume that users will follow a specific sequence of actions without considering alternative behaviors. This will disregard diverse user behaviors and preferences. A lack of personalization and relevance can result.
Context of use: Similarly, a designer might assume that users will use the product in a quiet and distraction-free environment—and design for that. However, this might not be the case for all users.
Professor Alan Dix explains why designers need to consider relevant contexts of use:
User preferences: Designers may assume what users will find visually appealing or intuitive based on their personal preferences. This can lead to design decisions that don't align with the actual preferences of the target users.
User familiarity: Designers may assume that users are familiar with certain industry-specific terms, symbols or processes. This may not be the case. An unfamiliar or too-complex user interface (UI) can therefore lead to confusion or frustration.
Culture: Designers might assume that design elements, colors or symbols have the same meaning or significance across all cultures. This can lead to misunderstandings or even offense in different cultural contexts.
Professor Alan Dix explains why designers need to consider their users’ culture:
Technological constraints: Designers may assume the limitations of the technology they are working with. This can impact the feasibility and usability of the design. For example, designers might assume that users will have a stable internet connection or access to specific devices.
Feedback: Designers may assume that users will provide feedback voluntarily. This can lead to a lack of proactive measures to gather user insights and improve the user experience.
Accessibility: Designers might assume that all users have the same physical or cognitive abilities. This is a potentially costly error to make. It can result in excluding individuals with disabilities from accessing and using the product or service—and may bring legal woes to the brand.
See why accessibility is such an essential component and concern in design:
These are fundamental examples of assumptions that designers may encounter. It's important to be aware of and challenge them through user research and user testing. Through various quantitative and qualitative research measures, such as focus groups, designers can ensure they base their design decisions on real user needs and behaviors.
Why do Designers Need to Test Assumptions?
This kind of testing is crucial in UX design and for several reasons:
User-centered design: When designers test assumptions, they help ensure that their designs are user-centered. So, they can ensure that their design work bridges any gaps between any “assumed” needs of the potential users and the needs and goals of those people who will actually encounter, use and judge the product or service.
Reduced risk of design failures: Such testing reduces the risk of design failures. When designers check and validate assumptions, they can avoid costly mistakes and rework.
Improved design decisions: Assumption testing can lead to more informed design decisions. When designers understand the users and their needs and goals, they can make better design decisions to guide new design projects or revisit and improve existing products.
Increased user satisfaction: Testing can lead to increased user satisfaction. When designers are sure they have backed up any assumptions during the design process with solid evidence and act on it, they will be more likely to delight many types of users. The product or service will meet the users' needs and goals, and be truly about them.
Best Practices to Minimize Assumptions in UX Design
To minimize the chance of designing based on assumptions, UX designers can follow these best practices:
Conduct User Research
User research is a crucial part of the design process that helps uncover user needs, behaviors, and preferences. When designers conduct interviews, surveys and usability testing, for example, they can gather data to validate or challenge their assumptions.
Use Empathy and User-Centered Design
Designers should adopt an empathetic mindset and embrace user-centered design principles. To do so is a vital aid for designers to understand users' perspectives and design with their needs and pain points in mind. This approach means to involve users throughout the design process, solicit their feedback and iterate based on their input.
See why empathy is such a vital ingredient in design from the outset:
Prototype and Test Early and Often
When designers prototype and test early in the design process, they can validate assumptions and gather user feedback before they invest significant resources in development. To conduct rapid prototyping and iterative testing allows designers to iterate based on real user insights. They can then minimize the impact of assumptions on the final design. For example, low-fidelity paper prototypes can help in early testing and gathering feedback without investing too much time and resources.
Collaborate with Cross-Functional Teams
It’s important to engage with cross-functional teams, such as developers, marketers and business analysts. This activity helps challenge assumptions and gain different perspectives. Collaborative discussions and knowledge sharing between product teams, development teams and others can uncover blind spots and lead to more informed design decisions.
UX Designer and Author of Build Better Products and UX for Lean Startups, Laura Klein explains the value of cross-functional teams.
Seek Continuous User Feedback
Designers should conduct usability tests and prioritize ongoing user feedback throughout the design process. When designers regularly seek feedback, they can learn about their assumptions, uncover new insights and from there make informed design decisions regarding many aspects of the visual design and functionality.
Aim for Inclusive Design
It’s important to ensure that the design is accessible to users with disabilities. An inclusive approach can help designers understand diverse user needs and reduce assumptions about their abilities and limitations.
UX Content Strategist, Architect and Consultant Katrin Suetterlin explains the value of inclusive design and how it differs from design for universal use:
Design Thinking and Assumption Testing
In the design thinking design process, assumptions play a crucial role in the ideation and prototyping stages. They provide a starting point for designers to generate ideas and design prototypes. However, they don’t take these assumptions at face value. Instead, designers challenge and test them through user research, or UX research and feedback.
Design thinking encourages designers to empathize with users, challenge assumptions and iterate on their designs. This approach ensures that they make the final design solution user-centered and that it meets the users' needs and goals. Assumption testing in design thinking involves several steps:
1. Recognize assumptions: Identify the assumptions that emerged during the design process. These could be about user behavior, user needs, the use context or any other aspect of the design.
2. Prioritize assumptions: Once the team has identified assumptions, they need to prioritize these. Give priority to those that have a high impact on the design. Do the same for those that the design team is least certain of.
3. Formulate hypotheses: For each prioritized assumption, formulate a hypothesis. A hypothesis is a tentative explanation that designers or researchers can test.
4. Test hypotheses: Test these hypotheses through user interviews, usability testing, surveys, etc.
5. Learn and iterate: Based on the outcomes of the hypothesis testing, work to refine and improve assumptions. This is an iterative process that continues until a satisfactory design solution comes about.
Design thinking is a highly iterative process. Design teams can leverage it well to check assumptions and work creatively. From there, they can find how to serve users best. Discover its value in this video:
Examples of Brands that Did Assumption Testing Well
Amazon and Google are just a few of the companies that have leveraged assumption testing to create successful products. For example, Amazon used customer feedback to refine its product offerings and make them more user-friendly. Meanwhile, Google has used hypothesis testing to improve its search engine algorithms and make them more accurate.
Remember, assumption testing is a crucial part of the UX design process. It welcomes effective user research methods and empowers designers. With it, designers can spot everything from minor flaws in the information architecture to deeper-rooted difficulties. Testing helps ensure user-centered designs and reduces the risk of design failures.
Also, it leads to more informed design decisions and prototypes that account better for user flow and optimal interactive design, and more. The outcome is increased user satisfaction, better-designed products, and, indeed, improved business outcomes.