[Source: https://algeria20.com/speaker/mouloud-khelif]
[Title: Mouloud Khelif - Algeria 2.0 - Le Futur Tech Algérien]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T10:53:10+00:00]

Mouloud Khelif, M.Eng. MSc. MBA. MAS. SPG Advisory Based in Geneva, Switzerland, Mouloud is a strategy, policy, and governance advisor/consultant with over thirty years international exposure, spanning multiple industries across public, private and non-profit sectors. Mouloud has an extensive experience as a lecturer, mentor, coach, and seminar leader facing diverse audiences, leading workshops on digital strategies for various innovative entrepreneurial ecosystems, and advising private and public sector organizations on sustainable tech policies driving the knowledge economy. Mouloud is also a policy analyst and research team leader at the Washington DC. Centre for AI and Digital Policies (CAIDP), an instructor for The Internet Society, and a policy contributor to the Digital Watch Observatory (Geneva Internet Platform.) His interests cover the impact of disruptive technologies on education, the future of work, and linking AI policies to digital infrastructure and sustainability. In January 2024, Mouloud was selected by the United Nations Secretary-general Office of the Special Envoy on Technology (OSET) to join the UNDP-Digital working group co-designing a Safe Digital Public Infrastructure (SafeDPI.) For the past few years, he has been involved in the Algerian tech startup ecosystem in various capacities. In January 2024, Mouloud was named by the Algerian Minister of Knowledge Economy and Startups as a Board member of the Scientific and Technical Council at Algeria Venture, the largest accelerator (nation-wide public agency under the ministry.) Additionally, he is an active contributor and a member of the organizing team for the African Startup Conference (3rd edition, 5-7 December 2024.) He holds a Master of Engineering from Ecole Nationale de l’Aviation Civile (ENAC, Toulouse), a Master of Science from Institut Polytechnique (Toulouse), an MBA from HEC Montreal (Canada), and an Executive Master of Advanced Studies from the Geneva Graduate Institute (Switzerland.) He earned an Advanced Diploma in Digital Governance from DiploFoundation and an Executive Certificate in SDG Investing from the Geneva Graduate Institute. Mouloud is also a certified trainer for the International Labor Organization (ILO) SYIB Entrepreneurship program.