[Source: https://brightscholarship.com/punjab-food-authority-jobs-2023-online-apply-food-authority-jobs-advertisement]
[Title: Punjab Food Authority Jobs 2023 Online Apply | Food Authority Jobs Advertisement]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:03:21+00:00]

Punjab Food Authority Jobs 2023 Online Apply | Food Authority Jobs Advertisement:
Applications are invited to apply for Punjab Food Authority Jobs December 2023 Online Apply. Punjab Food Authority has published Jobs Advertisement 2023. All Applicants from all over the Punjab can apply for PFA Jobs 2023. There is No Experience required to apply for these jobs. Food Authority Jobs are available for Intermediate to Masters degree holders. Also apply for1,000 Emirates Visa Sponsorship Jobs in Dubai 2024 Online Apply
Male, Female and Transgender having age between 26-35 Years are eligible to apply online for Punjab Food Authority Jobs. Candidates can also avail age relaxation upto 10 Years.
Please read the “General Instructions” regarding Application Fee, Written Test, Interview on PPSC website www.ppsc.gop.pk before applying online.
Employees of Semi Government and Autonomous Bodies of Federal Government or Provincial Government and those of Local Bodies are not entitled to age concession for the period of their service in such organization.
In case a candidate claims that his/her qualification is equivalent to the prescribed qualification, he/she will be required to submit equivalence certificate of his/her foreign/local qualification, issued by the Competent Authority of HEC/PMDC/PMC/PEC & QEDC of concerned Administrative Department, which will be accepted by the Commission as Final, at the time of interview or whenever asked by the Commission. If a candidate fails to submit Equivalence Certificate issued by the Competent Authority at the time of interview orwhenever asked by the Commission, his/her candidature shall be cancelled.
In case, a candidate claims experience of private firm / entity, he / she must bring proof at the time of interview that the firm /entity is registered with SECP, Registrar of Firms or any other Regulatory Authority, failing which his / her application shall be rejected.
The candidates will ensure that after applying for a particular post they will immediately apply for Departmental Permission Certificate/NOC in their concerned Department(s) and provide the Departmental Permission Certificate/NOC at the time of interview (if called).
The candidates just after applying for a particular post advertised by PPSC will ensure that they have obtained/applied for registration in PEC/PNC/PMDC/PMC/PVMC or other relevant body for Registration Certificate on or before the Closing Date and provide the same at the time of interview (if called).
The candidates will ensure that they will provide marks obtained / total marks orpercentage certificate of all degrees, issued by the Competent Authority, at the time of interview. CGPA is not acceptable.
No information, whatsoever, shared by anyone other than on the PPSC’s website, is authentic; therefore, candidates must not trust any such information.
The Shorthand Test and Typing & Proficiency Test, if required, will ONLY be held at Lahore.
Qamar Usman is the founder and CEO of Bright Scholarship, an organization that provides valuable information about scholarships, internships, fellowships, and jobs. He is also a highly accomplished software engineer with a passion for empowering the next generation of leaders. Through his work, he is helping to shape the future of education and technology.