[Source: https://globalafricatech.com/they-will-be-there]
[Title: They will be there – Global Africa Tech]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:18:18+00:00]

They will be there
Distinguished participants and contributors
Mr. Nelson Mario de Carvalho Rosa Cardoso
Minister of Infrastructure and Natural Resources
D. R. Sao Tome and Principe
H.E Selma Malika HADDADI
Deputy Chairperson
African Union Commission
H.E Ahmed Osman Dirie
State Minister
Communications and Technolgy
Mr. Sekou Kromah
Minister of Posts and Telecommunications
Republic of Liberia
Mr. AbdelBaset Al-Baour
Chairman of the General Authority for Communications and Informatics
State of Libya
Mr. Adji Ali Salatou
Minister of Communication and New Information Technologie
Republic of the Niger
Mr. David Tshere
Minister of Communications and Innovation
Republic of Botswana
Ms. Minette Libom Li Likeng
Minister of Posts and Telecommunications
Republic of Cameroon
Mr. Oumouri Madi Hassani
Minister of Posts and Telecommunications, Digital Economy and Transpa...
Union of the Comoros
Mr. Lamin JABBI
Minister of Communications and Digital Economy
Republic of the Gambia
Mr. William Kabogo Githau
Minister of Information, Communication and Digital Economy
Republic of Kenya
Mr. Sofiène Hemissi
Minister of Posts, Telecommunications and Digital Economy
Republic of Tunisia
Ms. Emma Theofelus
Minister of Information and Communication Technologies
Republic of Namibia
Mr. Boukar Michel
Minister of Communications, Digital Economy and Public Administration...
Republic of Chad
Mr. Avinash Ramtohul
Minister of Information Technology, Communication and Innovation
Republic of Mauritius
Mr. Ahmed Al-Duraidi Ghandour
Minister of Digital Transformation and Communications
Republic of the Sudan
Mr. Ahmed Salem Bede Etvagha
Minister of Digital Transformation and Public Administration Moderniz...
Islamic Rep. of Mauritania
Mr. Mohamed Adam Moalim
Minister of Posts and Telecommunications
Federal Republic of Somalia
Mr. José Carlos Estevens
Minister of Transport and Communications
Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Ms. Paula Ingabire
Minister of Information, Communication Technology and Innovation
Republic of Rwanda
Mr. Amr Talaat
Minister of Communications and Information Technology
Arab Republic of Egypt
Mr. Radwan Abdillahi Bahdon
Minister of Communication in charge of Posts and Telecommunications
Republic of Djibouti
Person information will be updated with complete details.