[Source: https://companyprogram.injaz-eldjazair.org/en]
[Title: The new Company Program - INJAZ El Djazair - Launch Your Future company with Real Business Experience!]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-20T17:14:50+00:00]

Unlock Your Potential with the INJAZ El Djazair's All New Company Program!
The New Company Program offers university students a unique opportunity to launch, manage, and grow real companies within their communities. This hands-on experience delivered by volunteers, mentors, and coaches allows students from diverse academic backgrounds to dive deep into the world of business, understanding the intricacies of business processes, the rewards and challenges of entrepreneurship, and the vital role entrepreneurs play in driving economic and social progress in the MENA region.
What will you be learning during our program?
First let's take a look at the different steps embedded into the program
Click below to explore the new Company Program by INJAZ El Djazair, including classes, sessions, and more!
YES! INJAZ El Djazair is a non-profit organization, and all of our programs are offered free of charge to all Algerian youth.
YES! Certificates of participation will be handed out to all the students that finish the online training phase.
Certificates of achievements will be handed out to individuals and teams for:
Absolutely! the new Company Program, meticulously designed to assist you in identifying specific problems in the market and guiding you in the development of a marketable and profitable startup that addresses these issues. This program will not only help you discover opportunities but also empower you to create innovative solutions that resonate with potential customers.
Throughout the entire program, you will maintain full ownership over your brand, ideas, and intellectual property. INJAZ El Djazair and its volunteer coaches will be dedicated to assisting you in registering your company, brand, project, and any existing patents.
It's important to emphasize that the internal policies of our organization strictly prohibit the appropriation of your ideas in any part of the program.
Any university student under the age of 25!
Throughout the entire program, you will maintain full ownership over your brand, ideas, and intellectual property. INJAZ El Djazair and its volunteer coaches will be dedicated to assisting you in registering your company, brand, project, and any existing patents.
It's important to emphasize that the internal policies of our organization strictly prohibit the appropriation of your ideas in any part of the program.
The program will span a total of six months, starting in January! However, there's no need to worry—the hybrid format of the program will make it easy to balance with your academic studies.
The program will culminate in INJAZ El Djazair's premier event, the Youth Entrepreneurship Celebration, where four or more prizes will be awarded to the top-performing junior companies.
In addition to the local Youth Entrepreneurship Celebration, one team will have the opportunity to qualify for the regional INJAZ Al-Arab YEC, competing for the regional trophy.
Launch your own company with the support of a world-renowned program and experts from diverse fields!