[Source: https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/ai/cosmos]
[Title: Physical AI with World Foundation Models | NVIDIA Cosmos]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:26:59+00:00]

Physical AI
An open platform for physical AI with world foundation models (WFMs), video data processing libraries, video evaluation, and post-training frameworks.
World Foundation Models
Leading world generation model, adaptable to any physical AI task or environment.
Generate 30s predictive video worlds from text, image, or video with 2B/14B models, or post-train on your data to create custom edge cases, closed-loop policies, and multiview, robot-centric simulations.
Multicontrol model for simulation to photoreal transformation.
Pair with physical AI simulation frameworks, such as CARLA or NVIDIA Isaac Sim™, to accelerate synthetic data generation across various environments and lighting conditions.
Leading vision language model (VLM) enabling robots and vision AI agents to reason like humans.
Combines prior knowledge, physics, and common sense for real-time alerts and actionable insights across public safety, traffic monitoring, logistics, quality inspection, and physical AI.
Speed up efficient dataset processing and evaluation.
Use Cases
Build custom world models for downstream tasks, environments, camera or sensor layouts, and policies.
Generate custom, diverse, and high-fidelity sensor data for safely training, testing, and validating autonomous vehicles.
Enhance automation, safety, and operational efficiency across industrial and urban environments.
With Cosmos Reason, AI agents can analyze, summarize, and interact with real-time or recorded video streams to:
Starting Options
AI Infrastructure
NVIDIA RTX PRO 6000 Blackwell Series Servers accelerate physical AI development for robots, autonomous vehicles, and AI agents across training, synthetic data generation, simulation, and inference.
Unlock peak performance for Cosmos world foundation models on NVIDIA Blackwell GB200 for industrial post-training and inference workloads.
Ecosystem
Model developers from the robotics, autonomous vehicles, and vision AI industries are using Cosmos to accelerate physical AI development.
Resources
[January 22, 2026] Released research on Cosmos Policy that builds on Cosmos Predict-2 for visuomotor control and planning.
[February 9, 2026] Enhanced compute support, quantization and CUDA compatibility for new Cosmos Reason 2.
[December 19, 2025] Released Cosmos-Predict2.5-2B Diffusers support via Hugging Face, Cosmos-Predict2.5-2B Text2World distilled checkpoint on Hugging Face and Distillation guide.
[December 19, 2025] Released Image2Image and ImagePrompt capabilities for Cosmos Transfer 2.5. See the inference guide here.
Explore GitHub for more.
Cosmos WFMs are available under an NVIDIA Open Model License for all.
Refer to the new Cosmos Cookbook, which contains step-by-step recipes and post-training scripts to quickly build, customize, and deploy NVIDIA’s Cosmos world foundation models for robotics and autonomous systems.
Yes, you can leverage Cosmos to build from scratch with your preferred foundation model or model architecture. You can start by using Cosmos Curator for video data preprocessing. Then compress and decode your data with Cosmos tokenizer. Once you have processed the data, you can train or fine-tune your model.
Using NVIDIA NIM™ microservices, you can easily integrate your physical AI models into your applications across cloud, data centers, and workstations.
You can also use NVIDIA DGX Cloud to train AI models and deploy them anywhere at scale.
All three are WFMs with distinct roles:
Omniverse creates realistic 3D simulations of real-world tasks by using different generative APIs, SDKs, and NVIDIA RTX rendering technology.
Developers can input Omniverse simulations as instruction videos to Cosmos Transfer models to generate controllable photoreal synthetic data.
Together, Omniverse provides the simulation environment before and after training, while Cosmos provides the foundation models to generate video data and train physical AI models.
Learn more about NVIDIA Omniverse.