[Source: https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/technologies]
[Title: NVIDIA Technologies and GPU Architectures | NVIDIA]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:26:59+00:00]

NVIDIA accelerated computing platforms power the new era of computing, performing exponentially more work in less time with greater energy efficiency and less cost than traditional CPU-based computing.
NVIDIA CUDA® is a revolutionary parallel computing platform. As an enabling hardware and software technology, CUDA makes it possible to use the many computing cores in a graphics processor to perform general-purpose mathematical calculations, achieving dramatic speedups in computing performance.
A commercial 3D volumetric visualization SDK that allows you to visualize and interact with massive data sets,in real time, and navigate to the most pertinent parts of the data. It leverages GPU clusters for scalable, real-time, visualization and computing of multi-valued volumetric data together with embedded geometry data.
A highly interactive and intuitive physically based rendering technology that generates photorealistic imagery by simulating the physical behavior of light and materials.
The NVIDIA Material Definition Language (MDL) is a programming language for defining physically based materials for rendering. It gives you the freedom to share physically based materials and lights between supporting applications. Build a library of MDL materials once and be confident they'll maintain their appearance as they move into all the applications in the workflow.
NVIDIA Multi-GPU Technology (NVIDIA Maximus®) uses multiple professional graphics processing units (GPUs) to intelligently scale the performance of your application and dramatically speed up your workflow. This delivers significant business impact across industries such as manufacturing, media and entertainment, and energy exploration.
NVIDIA's core SDK allows direct access to NVIDIA GPUs and drivers on windows platforms. NVAPI provides support for operations including access to multiple GPUs and displays.
Optimus technology intelligently optimizes your notebook PC, providing the outstanding graphics performance you need, when you need it, all while extending battery life for longer enjoyment.
An application framework for achieving optimal ray tracing performance on the GPU. It provides a simple, recursive, and flexible pipeline for accelerating ray tracing algorithms.
PhysX is a scalable multi-platform game physics solution supporting a wide range of devices, from smartphones to high-end multicore CPUs and GPUs. PhysX is already integrated into some of the most popular game engines, including Unreal Engine (versions 3 and 4), Unity3D, and Stingray.
The NVIDIA RTX platform fuses ray tracing, deep learning and rasterization to fundamentally transform the creative process for content creators and developers through the NVIDIA Turing GPU architecture and support for industry leading tools and APIs.
SLI (Scalable Link Interface) is NVIDIA's solution for supporting multiple GPUs. Up to 4 GPUs can work together to create insanely detailed graphics at high framerates.
Developers need the best tools, samples, and libraries to bring their creations to life. NVIDIA's award winning GameWorks SDK gets them access to the best technology from the leader in visual computing.
G-SYNC display technology delivers a smooth and fastest gaming experience by synchronizing display refresh rates to the GPU, eliminating screen tearing and minimizing display stutter and input lag.
A feature available on NVIDIA® GeForce® and Tesla® GPUs that boosts application performance by increasing GPU core and memory clock rates when sufficient power and thermal headroom are available.
Helps your plugged-in laptop run much quieter by intelligently pacing the game’s frame rate while simultaneously configuring the graphics settings for optimal power-efficiency.
AI computing enables every industry to find the higher intelligence in big data to solve the most challenging problems. From manufacturing to medicine to self-driving cars, AI computing is revolutionizing how we interact with — and learn from — technology.
Deep learning is a subset of machine learning in which neural networks learn many levels of abstraction. This is what puts the "deep" in deep learning. Each layer categorizes some kind of information, refines it, and passes it along to the next. The parallel computing nature of GPUs accelerates this process to enable breakthroughs like facial recognition, real-time voice translation, and self-driving cars.
DirectX 12 Ultimate is the newest version of the API and new gold standard for the next-generation of games. DirectX 12 Ultimate takes games to a whole new level of realism with support for ray tracing and more.
Machine learning uses sophisticated neural networks to create systems that can perform feature detection from massive amounts of data. The GPU's computing power and parallel-processing efficiency enables neural networks to train far larger training sets, significantly faster, using far less data center resources.
MXM (Mobile PCI Express Module), the result of a joint design effort between NVIDIA and the industry's leading notebook manufacturers, provides a consistent interface for mobile PCI Express graphics.
Universal Scene Description (USD) is an open-source 3D scene description and file format developed by Pixar for content creation and interchange among different tools. As a result of its power and versatility, it’s being widely adopted in visual effects, architecture, design, robotics, manufacturing, and other disciplines. USD is the foundational technology behind NVIDIA Omniverse™.
TXAA anti-aliasing creates a smoother, clearer image than any other anti-aliasing solution by combining high-quality MSAA multisample anti-aliasing, post processes, and NVIDIA-designed temporal filters.
Visual computing is an amazing field that brings together the leading edge of technology, science, and art. Its power has simultaneously made it a tool for creation, a medium for artistic expression, and a platform for entertainment, exploration, and communications.
NVIDIA 3D Vision products supports the leading 3D products available on the market, including 120Hz desktop LCD monitors, 3D projectors, and DLP HDTVs.
4K revolutionizes the way you view your games by adding 4X as many pixels as commonly used in 1920x1080 screens to create rich, superbly detailed worlds.