[Source: https://erasmusplus.dz/individuals]
[Title: Individuals - National Erasmus+ Office Algeria]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T14:31:10+00:00]

Opportunities for individuals
Erasmus Mundus Joint Masters are offered by multiple higher education institutions and run across various countries. They are distinguished by their academic excellence and by the high-level of integration of the courses.
Information and website of each Erasmus Mundus Joint Master degree scholarship program is available on the official Erasmus Mundus Catalogue of the European Commission.
Erasmus+ helps organise student and doctoral candidate exchanges within Erasmus+ Programme countries and to and from Partner countries.
By studying abroad with Erasmus+, you can improve your communication, language and inter-cultural skills and gain soft skills highly valued by future employers.
You can also combine your period spent studying abroad with a traineeship to gain work experience - ever important when starting out on the job market.
Opportunities to study abroad are available to students at short cycle Bachelor and Master levels and Doctoral candidates.
How to apply
You can apply through the international or Erasmus+ office of your higher education institution.
You should be selected by your sending higher education institution in a fair and transparent way.
Erasmus+ supports teaching and training periods at higher education institutions (HEIs) abroad.
If you work or teach at a higher education institution in Algeria, you can train or spend time teaching at an institution in an Erasmus+ Programme
How to apply
Contact the international or Erasmus+ office of your higher education institution to find out if these opportunities are available.
Youth exchanges allow groups of young people from different countries to meet, live together and work on shared projects for short periods.
Youth exchanges take place outside the school environment. On a youth exchange, you can expect to participate in activities such as workshops, exercises, debates, role-plays, outdoor activities and more.
To participate in a youth exchange, you cannot apply directly for a grant as an individual. Applications must be made by an organisation or a group of young people who in turn select who will participate in the exchange.
Erasmus+ supports the professional development of youth workers through training or networking periods abroad.
Periods abroad can consist of training courses, study visits, job shadowing or observation periods at relevant organisations and more.
To go abroad with Erasmus+ as a youth worker, your organisation must be part of a youth mobility project with another institution or organisation.
You cannot apply for a grant as an individual. Applications must be made by organisations who in turn involve youth workers in the project.
Virtual exchanges projects consist of online people-to-people activities that promote intercultural dialogue and soft skills development. They make it possible for every young person to access high-quality international and cross-cultural education (both formal and non-formal) without physical mobility.
You cannot apply for a grant as an individual. Applications must be made by organisations who in turns select the beneficiaries of the virtual exchange.