[Source: https://learn.nvidia.com/]
[Title: Deep Learning Institute (DLI) Training and Certification | NVIDIA]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:24:26+00:00]

Get the skills you need to fast track your success.
Take advantage of the latest technical training from NVIDIA and gain in-demand skills, hands-on experience, and expert knowledge in AI, data science, accelerated computing, and more.
Join industry experts on a global webinar for an overview of the 2026 NVIDIA certification portfolio. Learn about the new and updated exams across data science, physical AI, OpenUSD, and AI infrastructure, with prep guidance, sample questions, and a live Q&A.
Thursday, April 30, 2026, 9 a.m. PT | 9 a.m. CET | 1 p.m. BRT | 12:30 p.m. IST | 3 p.m. SGT
Bonus for attendees: Receive a 50% off exam discount code
Here are our most popular learning paths, which outline recommended courses and workshops to develop competency and gain credentials in specific areas.
Interested in other topics? Check out our full set of learning paths here.
Learn from technical industry experts and instructors who are passionate about developing curriculum around the latest technology trends.
Take online courses on your own schedule or join live workshops from anywhere with just your computer.
Gain hands-on experience with the most widely used, industry-standard software, tools, and frameworks.
Learn to build deep learning, accelerated computing, and accelerated data science applications for industries, such as healthcare, robotics, manufacturing, and more.
Earn an NVIDIA Deep Learning Institute certificate in select courses to demonstrate subject matter competency and support professional career growth.
Gain real-world expertise through content designed by NVIDIA and industry experts.
Access fully configured, GPU-accelerated servers in the cloud to complete hands-on exercises included in the training.
Build production-quality solutions with the same DLI base environment containers used in the courses, available from the NVIDIA NGC™ catalog.
NVIDIA offers training and certification for professionals looking to enhance their skills and knowledge in the field of AI, accelerated computing, data science, advanced networking, graphics, simulation, and more.
Contact us to learn how we can help you achieve your goals.
Get training news, announcements, and more from NVIDIA, including the latest information on new self-paced courses, instructor-led workshops, free training, discounts, and more. You can unsubscribe at any time.
Browse FAQs about the NVIDIA Deep Learning Institute courses and explore how it supports professional career growth.