[Source: https://www.altexsoft.com/company]
[Title: Altexsoft - Technology Consulting Partner]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T10:53:56+00:00]

AltexSoft provides a full range of product development services from idea elaboration through product engineering and introduction to market to further growth and expansion.
We immerse ourselves in your business or product to develop a deep understanding of its fundamental needs, requirements, and problems. This helps us prepare our vision of possible solutions for you and then establish a roadmap to reach your goals.
In the span of ten years, we have amassed over 100 employees, expanded to three offices in Ukraine and the US, and established a data science department. In 2017, AltexSoft embraced its travel technology focus, rapidly expanding our expertise in the industry, through our work with hotels, online travel agencies, aviation providers, vacation rental firms, and travel tech startups. In 2021, AltexSoft opened an R&D hub in Georgia and started hiring remotely across the globe. In 2024, with offices open in six countries, 400+ employees, and new hiring destinations around the world, we’ve become a truly global company with a rich portfolio of exciting projects in the travel domain and beyond. Today, hundreds of worldwide businesses have chosen us as their Technology Consulting Partner.
With a strong focus on travel technology consultancy, we can help your travel business succeed, whether you're a hotel, an airline, a TMC, an OTA, or a disrupter TravelTech startup.
We work closely with you to identify the hidden, unmet needs within your processes and maintain a high level of involvement for years to come.
We're consultants first and coders second. We search for the root of the problem to tackle your business needs with the help of technology.
We boast an exceptional pool of technical talent, comprising skilled professionals that can turn your ideas into reality. And with our unique approach to knowledge sharing, we can grow it to accommodate your needs.
We could dazzle you with talk of Agile, Scrum, and Kanban, or probe into the intricacies of MVPs and ROI, but let's cut to the chase. What truly matters is ensuring your project experiences smooth sailing from start to finish.
What you need to know is that every member of our team cares about the ultimate outcome of their work, while loving the process of doing it. See what motivates us to build a great custom software product for you.