[Source: https://www.altexsoft.com/travel-technology/metasearch-ota-website]
[Title: OTA Booking Engine & Metasearch Solutions | AltexSoft]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T10:53:56+00:00]

Search functionality is the core of any travel website. A search engine processes the user's request and matches it against a vast database of travel options, filtering and sorting results based on relevance, price, availability, and other factors.
BOOKING PLATFORM
Booking flow
A travel booking flow should be user-friendly, guiding customers from the initial search to the final confirmation of their booking. It allows customers to review options, select services they like, and make a payment.
BOOKING PLATFORM
Booking desk
An OTA needs an internal tool for travel agents to easily search availability, apply discounts, create packages, and perform any non-typical requests unavailable through a booking engine.
We build seamless booking engines for effortless user experiences
BOOKING PLATFORM
Rate and commission processing
The cost of each travel product differs depending on commissions, markups, service fees, and discounts. So, you need a special software module that will automatically choose the product with the most beneficial rate composition and calculate the cost the way it will be displayed for the user.
BOOKING PLATFORM
Accounting and payment processing
You need a smooth and secure payment experience for your customers that merges well with your accounting software. There are different ways for OTAs to handle hotel payments, namely via a merchant or an agency model. You can choose one or use a hybrid like most agencies do, but make sure your accounting tools support both ways. As for flight ticket sales, you must report payments via IATA BSP or ARC.
BOOKING PLATFORM
Travel supplier integrations
Both OTAs and metasearch engines have an extensive supplier lineup that needs to be seamlessly connected. Set up connectivity with GDSs, wholesalers, channel managers, directly with hotels and airlines, and of course, using the NDC standard. On top of that, be able to automatically search for your custom rates for every supplier from one unified platform.
Use technology to manage relationships and keep travelers coming back
BOOKING PLATFORM
Customer relationship management
You gather a lot of data about your customers, so why not use it to build relationships and get them coming back? Make the most out of customer data by learning to identify returning users, differentiating them into relevant groups, engaging them with special offers, and setting up personalizations to help find the best-fit deals.
Booking platform
Customer service
Most travel businesses have different ways to perform customer service from chat to call centers. You need a unified platform to handle requests, easily direct them to appropriate departments, and house all records.
BOOKING PLATFORM
Analytics and reporting
Analytics only make sense when they're robust, regularly updated, and feature all the metrics you find important. They're also the driving force for demand forecasting and dynamic pricing efforts. You can even go as far as employing business intelligence – a platform capable of turning raw data into actionable insights or even making predictions.
Travel Related
Wide expertise within the travel domain and beneath it. See all Insights
Booking platform
Frequently Asked Questions
What is a booking engine?
What is a commission engine?
Do you provide NDC implementation?
What types of travel product suppliers do you provide integrations with?