[Source: https://boardroomadvisors.co/partners]
[Title: Boardroom Advisors Business Partners - Partner With Us]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:02:30+00:00]

Partners
Boardroom Advisors is a member of the Department for International Trade’s UK Investment Support Directory.
An international job search site used by millions of people in 71 countries every day. Finding your dream job is easier than you think and Jooble is here to help.
The Employee Ownership Association (EOA) represents organisations that are employee owned / transitioning to employee ownership.
JP Jenkins provides a low cost and efficient platform for companies’ shareholders to sell shares. Selling your shares is easy, as we provide a facility that can quickly match buyers and sellers.
UK Business Angels Association connect the investment ecosystem, creating a coherent and diverse financing landscape.
Growth Lending provides funding to high-growth companies where traditional banks cannot.
We believe that the future of accounting is to go into ‘the cloud’ so all your information is in real-time in the digital age.
BCMS is an independent and impartial sell-side corporate finance advisor for privately owned businesses.
A business community of career women and women entrepreneurs who care for their members and empower them to succeed.
TechSPARK is a not-for-profit network dedicated to connecting, educating and strengthening digi-tech in the West.
A team of experienced entrepreneurs with multi-industry track-records who believe passionately in UK businesses.
SETsquared is a unique enterprise partnership and a dynamic collaboration between the five leading research-led UK universities.
The Northern Legal Alliance is a unique & effective legal business development network.
Business Show Media Ltd. holds a portfolio of some of the biggest events in Europe.
Business support, online, in print, in person.
M&A Advisors, specialising in company sales, acquisitions & finance raising, alongside a full service Chartered Accountancy practice.
Specialists in business sales and acquisitions for the engineering, technology and B2B service sectors.
Seedrs are equity crowdfunding done properly. They enable investors to invest in businesses they believe in.
E2E are the epicentre of the entrepreneurial evolution, connecting like-minded entrepreneurs to quality corporate services.
The Alacrity entrepreneurship course combines entrepreneurs with mentors to create next generation technology companies.
Edinburgh Connections organise the biggest regular business networking events in Scotland
Polish Business Link is a membership organisation and B2B portal.
SeedLegals is the UK market standard for companies raising investment and incentivising their teams with share options.
Complex finance made simple. Get the finance you need to achieve your goals.
Collaborate South West is a business community driven by passions, bringing leaders and business owners together.
The flexible workspace you need. You focus on your business, we take care of everything else.
Canopy boost start-up ecosystems, focusing on values and diversity, with a strong community at its core.
Viv Williams Consulting provides a range of services to law firms with the sole aim of helping them to be the best.
The most respected premium quality “Family Office” magazine in the world that caters to the ultra-wealthy family office sector.
International payment solutions that make your life easier, reduce risk and save you money.
Make your network your net worth.
Regionally is an investment platform that helps address the glaring gap in the UK corporate funding world.
Metro Bank believe that people come first, and that everyone deserves a great experience every step of the way.
Granted Consultancy specialises in unlocking non-dilutive funding for innovative companies.
Vestd’s platform makes it easy to distribute and digitally manage your equity. Built for SMEs by the UK’s share scheme experts.
Coronation Wealth Management provides tailored face to face financial advice to both private and corporate clients.
Empact Ventures are Super Connectors who help the right people and organisations achieve the right mutual outcomes.
Manage your business finances in one fell Swoop. Access funding across equity, grants and loans. Unlock cash through better deals.
Mountside Ventures help ambitious entrepreneurs raise their Next Round of funding.
Global Chamber® is a unique growing community of CEOs, executives and leaders in 525 regions around the world.
Stakeholderz is a unique equity funding platform where angel investors back the most exciting startup businesses in the tech sector.
Home Grown is the private members’ club that provides entrepreneurial pioneers with unique resources to unlock their business potential.
The Eternal Business Consultancy was established to promote the concept of the Employee Ownership Trust (EOT).
The Startup Club is a one-stop-shop for global entrepreneurs, assisting businesses in their capital structuring and growth.
A multi-regional business fusion event that connects people, opening new opportunities for growth and collaboration.
Elite Business Live is a one-of-a-kind event dedicated to high-growth businesses.
The Chairman’s Network is a trusted brand, established to support the business and networking requirements of Board Directors.
Avondale helps ambitious owners buy and sell companies, secure investment, grow and create shareholder value.