[Source: https://boardroomadvisors.co/visas/innovator-visa]
[Title: UK Innovator Visa Programme For Entrepreneurs With Boardroom Advisors]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:02:30+00:00]

Innovator Visa Programme
Please note that Boardroom Advisors provides startup and business advice including research, business planning and the supply of UK Directors. We do not provide immigration or legal advice ourselves but can we can sign-post you to a firm that can provide a free 30 min discussion with immigration advisors or immigration lawyers.
UK Innovator Visa Programme for Entrepreneurs
Boardroom Advisors have 150+ Advisors (Chairs, NEDs as well as experts in finance, marketing, sales, IT, operations, strategy, managing) and Regional Directors who have all scaled businesses and are experienced in helping others to scale and succeed.
View recent case studies
Endorsing Body
The Innovator Visa route has been merged with the Start-up Visa Route into the Innovator Founder Visa at 13th April 2023 and Boardroom Advisors is now a legacy endorsing body.
Boardroom Advisors had been supported by the UK Government’s Department of International Trade (DIT) and confirmed by The Home Office as an Endorsing Body under the Innovator Visa scheme.
We also supply business advice for those interested in Self Sponsorship (Skilled Worker Visas) and Startup Visas.
It is the experience of our seasoned Advisors and Regional Directors, combined with our tried and tested Strategic Review format, as well as optional additional advice from experts in finance, funding, marketing, sales, IT and operations, which makes us an ideal partner for entrepreneurs—especially those progressing through the Innovator Visa Programme – Stage 2—who want their business to have the best chance of succeeding.
“Thank you for the email and the greatest supporting throughout the process! The process was seamless from your end also was smooth with Home Office too.”
Innovator Visa Recipient from Saudi Arabia
3 popular business sponsorship routes compared
| Self-Sponsorship | Innovator Visa * | Start-up Visa * |
| You can be a Director and 100% shareholder of your company. | Although these routes do not have a shareholding requirement, some endorsing bodies ask for a portion of shares in the company before giving an endorsement. | Although these routes do not have a shareholding requirement, some endorsing bodies ask for a portion of shares in the company before giving an endorsement. |
| Any business can qualify for the self-sponsorship route | This business is for experienced business people | This business is for new entrepreneurs |
| No Endorsement letter required | Endorsement letter required | Endorsement letter required |
| English language requirement B1* | English language requirement B2 | English language requirement B2 |
| The business does not have to be innovative or unique | Your business idea has to be innovative: something unique that is not already existing in the market | Your business idea has to be innovative: something unique that is not already existing in the market |
| Valid for up to 5 years | Valid for 3 years | Valid for 2 years |
| This can be an existing or new business | You cannot join a business that is already trading | You cannot join a business that is already trading |
* Note that the Innovator Visa and the Start-up Visa are both now incorporated into the Innovator Founder Visa
Strategic Reviews
We begin with a Strategic Review which starts the business on a firm footing, as all of the relevant issues are discussed, and priorities and timescales agreed.
The Strategic Review is up to 4 man-days work with both our Regional Director and the chosen Advisor involved. It is tailor-made for each client focusing on the key issues and opportunities but often consists of
1. Internal Research – this may be reviewing business/marketing plans or interviewing stakeholders in the company.
2. Strategic Workshop with the company stakeholders where the key issues and opportunities are discussed and major priorities and timescales agreed. This might be 4-5 hours on site or 2 x 2-2.5 hr group Zooms. We use different management tools for different challenges but these might include SWOT, MOST Analysis, Ansoff’s Matrix or OKRs, PEST Analysis, Porters 5 Forces etc. In addition, the Advisor will draw on experience and subject matter analysis.
3. Report including 100-day plan outline and recommendations.
4. Follow up meeting with the client to agree priorities, timescales and – if the client wants optional ongoing input from one of our specialists in finance, marketing, sales, IT, operations etc – the number of days in the first month (this can be flexed up or down or paused or stopped in future months).
Six Monthly and Annual Reviews
This Strategic Review, and in particular the MOST Analysis, is reviewed on a six monthly and annual basis together with performance against projected profit and loss and cashflow in order to keep the business on track.
Optional Additional Specialist Advice
We can provide optional additional advice from experts in finance, funding, marketing, sales, IT and operations. These seasoned experts can provide project or ongoing specialist advice and/or Part-time Directors on a month-by-month basis to build an initial Board. We can even help find you Full-time Directors as the business builds.
Strategy for evaluating Innovator growth (Innovative, Viable and Scalable)
Innovative: Analysis of the business plan to confirm that it meets new or existing market needs and/or creates a competitive advantage. Confirmation of a clearly defined and robust value proposition showing some unique features when looked at against the competition.
Viable: The business must appear to be sustainable, based on its assets and expected income, weighed against its planned expenses. This can be measured through cash flow as well as profit and loss forecasting. The ongoing six monthly and annual reviews are judged against the original business plan and financial forecasts and there should be significant achievements against that plan.
Scalable: Annually revised business plan and financial forecasts should show the business with the potential of growth and job creation. And, on an ongoing basis, there must be evidence of the plan coming to fruition, actual job creation and growth into national and international markets.
“We are delighted to have a 90% success rate from our endorsement to the Home Office granting Visas.”
John Courtney, Chief Executive
Register interest
Please click the button below to register your interest in Self Sponsorship and to receive more information: