[Source: https://boardroomadvisors.co/west-midlands-region]
[Title: Get A Part-time Director Or NED In The West Midlands]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:02:30+00:00]

West Midlands Region
Name
Darrel
Position
Regional Director
Locations
We have more than 150 Advisors available for clients
Meet some of our Advisors local to the West Midlands Region below
Name
Stuart
Position
Boardroom Advisor
Name
Paul
Position
Boardroom Advisor
Name
Wayne
Position
Boardroom Advisor
Name
Alan
Position
Boardroom Advisor
Name
Andrew
Position
Boardroom Advisor
The West Midlands Region
Are you looking for part-time director level support for your business? Boardroom Advisors has a team of local advisors for businesses in the West Midlands region, including Wolverhampton, Dudley, Coventry, and Stoke-On-Trent.
As well as the team of local advisors, Boardroom Advisors has a national team of over 150 Advisors. All of our Advisors have experience on Boards and have scaled up business before, so can provide their expertise for whatever challenges you scale-up or SME might face.
Darrel, Regional Director for Boardroom Advisors, will help connect you with the right support for your business. From Board Advisory through to CEOs with specialisations from Strategy to Sales, there’s an Advisor to suit you. You can find a full overview of our services here.
Introduction to the West Midlands Region
- The economy – Innovation is deeply rooted in West Midland’s economy. It is one of the fastest growing economy in the UK boasting of £133,128 million in Gross added value in 2017 (£22,713 per capita)
- The region has been selected as the first region in the UK ready to trial rollout of new 5G applications and services at scale
- Curzon Street station loacted in Birmingham, HS2’s new landmark, is set to be one of the most environmentally-friendly railway stations in the world.
- 2022 Birmingham Commonwealth Games, Coventry City of Culture 2021 are set to increase West Midland’s tourism growth in the coming years and is setting the region in the global spotlight.
- Boasting a four hour drive for 90% of the UK population, West Midland’s is the best connected city- region in the UK, while having close proximity to London and Birmingham Airport
West Midlands is home to home to over 5.9 million people, 77.8% are of working age. West Midland’s vibrant, thriving major cities includes Birmingham, Coventry, Wolverhampton & Dudley. Birmingham, is UK’s second’s largest city and has secured it’s spot as the Top 7th city in the Top 10 UK cities for Tech Innovation by UK Tech Innovation Index
West Midland’s is UK’s second largest urban area. It is the largest regional economy in the UK, outside of London. It is well – known to be the innovation heartland of the UK. It is home to UK’s first multi- city 5G test bed.
The core business of West Midlands are production industries, business services and creative sectors.
Many business start-ups choose the West Midlands because of the diverse pool of talent already living, working and studying here. West Midlands is home to many of the UK’s best schools and is a hotspot for music and festivals
Although the region is dominated commercially by the cities of Birmingham, Coventry, Wolverhampton the area is surrounded by quiet green suburbs and wide-open spaces alongside easily accessible attractions and culture which attract millions of tourists to the area each year.
Networking Events for MDs & CEOs
The Midlands Expo Birmingham (December)
greatbritishexpos.co.uk/midlands-expo-registration
Taking place on the 8th December between 10am – 3pm, the Midlands Expo Birmingham is one of Birmingham’s most successful regional business shows. Held at the Aston Villa FC, the event is packed full of business advice and insights for entrepreneurs, start-ups and SME’s and is all about bringing companies and communities together to learn and grow their business. To attend The Midlands Expo is FREE.
Midlands Business Network Expo (Recurring Event)
themidlandsbusinessnetwork.co.uk/exhibitions
The Midlands Business Network Expo offers businesses a platform to increase their sales pipeline, raise brand awareness and grow their professional network.
Join us at one of the regions largest B2B exhibitions where you can find new sales opportunities and boost your business growth.
The exhibition is free to attend as a visitor, giving you the opportunity to network with exhibitors and visitors alike.
If you’re looking to enhance your profile further, then exhibiting at the Midlands Business Network Expo is an excellent forum to promote your business and showcase your services to a captive audience.
Why should you attend the Midlands Business Network Expo?
- Make valuable business connections
- Generate leads for your business
- Identify new customers
- Develop your skills and gain business insight by attending our free seminars and workshops
The Covid-19 pandemic has had a devastating impact on our economy. More than ever, businesses need to kick-start their marketing following this extremely difficult period.
We have worked hard with local venues to give you the confidence to attend live events again.
With new safety guidelines in place we can confidently offer you a safe and secure environment to network. To read our event safety checklist in full detail, then please click here.
Midlands Development Conference (November)
built-environment-networking.com/event/midlands-development-conference
The Midlands is thriving – with inward investment at an all time high, and the arrival of projects such as HS2 and events including the Commonwealth Games that trend is only set to continue. To fully maximise the opportunities presenting themselves a collaborative approach will be needed – and that’s why all the key influential figures will gather at this event to connect, meet and drive future growth across the region.
We’ll be discussing the key updates happening across the West, East and Central Midlands regions from those in the know. Our incredible panels will discuss and present their ongoing development plans, revealing exclusive insights and future schemes set to take place across the region. It’s a truly exciting time for the area and this is a must-attend event for those in the built environment sector looking to be at the forefront of the region’s future vision and be involved in the biggest developments.
We will once again have an incredible panel discussing their developments and ongoing vision – explaining how firms can get involved. Some of the topics to be discussed include:
| * 30bn+ of projects across the Midlands | * £1.5bn of regional infrastructure investment |
| * Hundreds of millions of investment by Argent | * Ambitious plans for the 12,000-acre Bradford Estate |
| * Future NHS development plans in Walsall | * Development of 6 new train stations |
| * Major office and employment schemes in Solihull | * £2bn investment bid by Midlands Connect |
| * Transformation of Derby city centre |
CBI West Midlands Annual Dinner 2020 (November)
eventbrite.co.uk/e/cbi-west-midlands-annual-dinner-2020-tickets
Join over 300 business leaders from across the region for a lively evening of discussion and networking.
This year we will be taking our Annual Dinner to a whole new level with an exciting line up of speakers including Lord Karan Bilimoria CBE DL, CBI Vice-President, who will share his perspectives on the current issues impacting the business environment and what that means for our region.
Others speakers will be announced soon – previous panel members have included Andy Street, Mayor of the West Midlands, Katherine Bennett Senior VP Airbus, Frances O’Grady General Secretary TUC – and this is always a lively panel debate.
The Annual Dinner offers you a fantastic opportunity to:
- Meet, engage and build connections with more than 300 senior figures and influencers from West Midlands business, civic and political community
- Hear thought-provoking and engaging speeches from the world of business, politics and entertainment
- Entertain clients and business associates, whilst enjoying a fine dining experience, including a three-course dinner and accompanying wine
Organisations Supporting Businesses in West Midlands
West Midlands Chambers of Commerce LLP
linkedin.com/company/west-midlands-chambers-of-commerce-llp
Dept. Int. Trade WM
The West Midlands Growth Company
gbslepgrowthhub.co.uk/our-partners/the-west-midlands-growth-company
linkedin.com/company/gbslep-growth-hub
CWLEP Growth Hub
linkedin.com/company/cwlepgrowthhub
GBSLEP Growth Hub
linkedin.com/company/gbslep-growth-hub
Black Country Growth Hubs
linkedin.com/company/black-country-lep