[Source: https://www.overleaf.com/about/features-overview]
[Title: LaTeX editor features & benefits - Overleaf, Online LaTeX Editor]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:30:39+00:00]

features
Write, collaborate, and create with Overleaf
Overleaf is the collaborative LaTeX editor that anyone can use. Find out why we’re loved by beginners and TeXperts alike.
With Overleaf, working with large complex documents is no longer a daunting task.
LaTeX, simplified
Visual Editor and Code Editor
Switch to our Visual Editor to edit without writing code. Switch back to Code Editor anytime to see the code behind your writing.Tables and figures with the click of a button
Whether you’re working in Visual Editor or Code Editor, our toolbar lets you add figures and tables, and easily format text.Templates for everything
Our range of free templates and example projects mean you don’t have to start from scratch.No setup, installation, or package management
Our online editor is setup and ready to go the minute you log in.
Seamless collaboration
Project sharing
Share your project via a link or add collaborators directly by email.Simultaneous editing, commenting, and chat
Multiple people can edit and comment on shared LaTeX documents simultaneously and take advantage of in-document chat to discuss changes as they go.Real-time track changes Premium
See your collaborators’ edits in real time and easily identify what they’ve changed.Project history and version control Premium
Easily review changes to your project over time. Compare, label, and download different versions.
Hassle-free scientific and technical writing
Powered by LaTeX for perfect formatting
LaTeX’s powerful typesetting capabilities mean you can focus on your writing without worrying about the layout.Better bibliographies and citations
Easily manage your bibliographies, citations, and cross-referencing with LaTeX or use our integrations with Papers, Mendeley or Zotero.Symbol palette Premium
Insert math symbols into your document with the click of a button.Advanced reference search Premium
Find your references simply—search by author, title, year, or journal.
integrations
Connect your favorite tools Premium
Whether you want to edit your project in GitHub, use your Papers bibliography, or sync with Dropbox, Overleaf integrates with tools you already use and love.
templates
Get started with a template
From publisher-approved research article templates to business proposals, and so much more.
Journal articlesarrow_outward
Select from an array of journal templates and submit directly from Overleaf.
Thesesarrow_outward
Templates to help you tackle the most important piece of work you’ll produce as a student.
CVs and résumésarrow_outward
Make the right first impression with our popular range of CV templates.
\begin
Discover why over 20 million people worldwide trust Overleaf with their work.