[Source: https://www.overleaf.com/about/customer-stories]
[Title: Customer Stories - Overleaf, Online LaTeX Editor]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:30:39+00:00]

customer storiesMeet the organizations writing smarter with Overleaf
Ontario Tech’s Vialab group saves ‘significant’ time writing, editing, and collaborating.
The leading UK university more than quadrupled the number of institutions with which it collaborates and saw a 310% jump in new projects.
Discover how Overleaf is powering thousands of collaborations at one of the world’s foremost research organizations.
Find out how Symplectic’s flagship research information management system went from strength to strength with Overleaf’s ‘flexible, scaleable’ authoring platform.
Time spent on formatting and reviewing was dramatically reduced after Overleaf was adopted by the leading American public research university.
Customized LaTeX templates and a simplified submission process make it even easier to publish on the innovative open research platform.
Undergraduates at New York’s Cornell University collaborated easily and efficiently on a global competition entry after switching to Overleaf’s collaborative LaTeX editor.
Read the full storyWith Overleaf, we now have a process for developing technical documentation which has virtually eliminated the time required to properly format and layout documents.
plansPlans to fit your needs
From small teams to large enterprises
Pro group
For teams and organizations who want to collaborate securely, with Overleaf premium features for all users and managed user accounts. SSO is available on request.
Commons
The easy way to unlock premium Overleaf features for your entire organization, with domain-based enrollment, SSO, and a custom resource portal.
On-premises Server Pro
For teams and organizations who want to host Overleaf in their own secure environment, with enhanced administrative control over projects and user access.
Don’t see the right fit for you?
\begin
Our friendly team will help you find the right solution for your organization.