[Source: https://www.overleaf.com/about]
[Title: About us - Overleaf, Online LaTeX Editor]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:30:39+00:00]

The home of scientific and technical writing about us
Overleaf was developed by researchers to make scientific and technical writing simpler and more collaborative. There are over 20 million Overleafers at research institutions and businesses around the world who love our platform because it helps them to write smarter and work together.
20m+
Overleaf users
100m+
documents created
189
countries
Explore Overleaf for business and universities
Great ideas deserve to be as our story
polished as they are powerful
Powerful, precise, and perfectly formatted
LaTeX has been the go-to tool for academics, researchers, and anyone passionate about perfectly formatted documents for ages. It’s powerful, precise… and, let’s be honest, a bit intimidating if you’re not a coding expert.
Simpler, more collaborative LaTeX
Enter John Hammersley and John Lees-Miller! In 2011, with a desire to make LaTeX easier and more collaborative for everyone (yes, everyone), they created Overleaf—an online platform where you can collaborate in LaTeX, compile, and perfect your documents.
Creating the ultimate research writing tool
In 2014, we became part of Digital Science. And in 2017, we merged with ShareLaTeX to create the most popular online LaTeX collaboration tool in the world.
Trusted by millions for everything from CVs to scientific breakthroughs
Today, tens of millions of users around the world use Overleaf for everything from their first research paper to groundbreaking discoveries. Whether you’re tweaking equations, crafting résumés, or pulling an all-nighter to format citations, we’ve got your back.
We aim to be... our values
diversity_1
Friendly, open, and approachable
We want users to know that we understand their challenges and that we’re here to offer friendly support.
target
User centered
We build our platform based on user needs and what will make life easier for them.
handshake
Trustworthy and professional
Our users and customers can trust us with their most important work.
lab_research
Collaborative and innovative
We love science and learning and want to work together with the research community to build what they need most from a writing tool.
psychiatry
Sustainable, scalable, and reliable
We’re committed to creating a product that users can rely on—and which does as little harm as possible to the planet.
globe
Remote-first and flexible
We trust our people to get the work done while also living their lives.
Behind the scenes and how to join us life at overleaf
lab_research
Part of Digital Science
Overleaf is part of Digital Science, a company developing software that understands science. Their products include Altmetric, Writefull, ReadCube, Figshare, Dimensions, and many more.
work
Careers at Digital Science
Want to be part of the future of Overleaf? Digital Science hires for roles working on Overleaf and a range of other software products for science. Take a look at the careers page to get involved.
campaign
What’s new?
Want to find out the latest Overleaf news and feature releases? Head on over to our blog.
\begin
Discover why over 20 million people worldwide trust Overleaf with their work.