[Source: https://www.overleaf.com/about/ai-features]
[Title: AI features - Overleaf, Online LaTeX Editor]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:30:39+00:00]

ai features
Write smarter, faster, and with confidence with ✨ Overleaf AI
The ultimate research writing toolkit—combining AI LaTeX tools with language and editing assistance
table_chart
LaTeX table generator and equation generator
build
Help with LaTeX writing and errors
dictionary
Research-tailored language suggestions, AI paraphrase tool, and more
Write smarter, right now
Try our AI features for free. Increase your AI allowance when you buy an Overleaf plan.
features
Bringing together LaTeX-tailored AI tools from Overleaf and Writefull
LaTeX table generator and equation generator
Generate tables and equations in seconds, saving you hours of manual coding.
- Generates LaTeX tables and equations from images or simple text prompts
- Creates the LaTeX code for you
- Works with even the most complex tables and equations
LaTeX AI code and writing assistance from TeXGPT
It won’t write your paper for you, but TeXGPT can help you create it faster.
- Generates figures and other LaTeX code
- Creates outlines, examples, skeleton documents, and writing feedback
- Gives explanations of content
- Corrects or updates your formatting
LaTeX error assistance
Get your documents compiling smoothly with AI error support.
- Explains errors in your LaTeX code
- Suggests the most appropriate fix
- Applies suggestions for you (if you ask it to)
Research-tailored AI language feedback
Get context-aware suggestions to improve grammar, spelling, word choice, and sentence structure.
- Corrects and perfects your writing
- Tailored to the nuances of academic and research writing
- Trained on published academic papers
AI paraphrase tool and contextual editing
Expand your draft, elevate your writing style, and clarify your ideas with ease.
- Paraphrases selected text
- Summarizes lengthy paragraphs
- Checks synonyms in content
- Generates abstracts and titles
why overleaf ai?
Responsible AI built for research writing
bolt
Speed up your workflow
Spend less time wrestling with LaTeX code and perfecting your prose, and more time focusing on your groundbreaking research.
contract_edit
Write with confidence with Writefull
Ensure your documents are error-free, polished, and ready for publication, thanks to Writefull’s language tools, all included within your Overleaf AI allowance.
automation
Built for the way you work
Our LaTeX AI features are built by the TeXperts at Overleaf, while writing suggestions are specifically tailored to research and academic writing.
database
No training on your data
Your project data and interactions are never used to train AI models.
lock
You’re in control
You’ll be notified if a feature uses a third-party service (such as OpenAI’s GPT). And you can choose the level of AI support that feels right for you .
workspace_premium
ISO certified
As part of Digital Science, Overleaf is ISO/IEC 27001:2022 certified, showing our commitment to the highest requirements of information security.
This has greatly enhanced my productivity in paper writing. I’m very happy that it understands LaTeX, and I was able to use it to generate complex LaTeX tables and sub-figure plots.
frequently asked questions
Your questions answered
How do I get started with Overleaf AI?
You can start using AI tools in Overleaf by enabling AI features in your account settings. This gives you free limited access. For more information on how to use the tools, you can read our documentation.
Is there a free trial of Overleaf AI?
Once AI features are enabled in your account settings, you can use them a limited number of times each day, for as long as you like. Buying an Overleaf plan will remove these limits and give you increased access to all the AI features.
Does Overleaf AI adhere to rules about AI use at my institution/organization?
Different institutions, organizations, and publishers have different policies around use of AI. The level of AI support you use with Overleaf AI is entirely up to you. For example, you could use it for language revision and fixing LaTeX errors without using the text rewriting/rephrasing features. Choose what feels right to you, and make sure to follow your institution’s or publisher’s policy.
What kind of LaTeX errors can Overleaf AI help with?
The Error Assist tool simplifies the debugging process by providing explanations and suggested fixes for LaTeX coding errors, both simple and complex. It can only correct LaTeX coding errors, it doesn’t fix all errors within your project. For example, if you’re experiencing a compile timeout, there may be other problems you need to fix. It’s important to bear in mind that the more specialized your LaTeX code is, the greater the potential for inaccurate error suggestions. Error Assist is not always aware of your custom commands and may offer more general solutions.
Can I use Overleaf AI for documents written in a language other than English?
Overleaf AI’s language suggestions (by Writefull) can support multiple languages. All you need to do is select the GPT model to start checking your text in Spanish, Dutch, German, Chinese, or any other language. Find out more about Writefull’s language support.
Can Overleaf AI help me generate LaTeX tables and equations?
The Table and Equation Generator tools let you instantly generate the LaTeX code for tables and equations using just an image or a prompt, saving you time when writing in LaTeX. Find out how in our documentation.
Note that while you can use these features for free, you will be subject to a daily cap. Purchasing an Overleaf plan will let you use the Table Generator and Equation Generator tools with an increased allowance!
How does Overleaf AI use my data?
The different AI features within Overleaf AI are designed to protect your data and comply with Overleaf's and Writefull's policies. Importantly, your projects and data are never used for training without your consent.
Some of Overleaf and Writefull’s AI features (such as Error Assist, or Writefull’s GPT language model) use third-party services like OpenAI. Before using these features, you'll be prompted to give consent the first time content is sent for external processing. If you choose to use these features, your text may be sent to and temporarily stored by this third-party service provider, but will not be used for training their models. Find out more in our documentation.
What are the fair use limits?
All eligible users can try Overleaf and Writefull AI features with a limited number of free uses each day. If you hit your daily quota for a particular feature, you'll need to either:
- Purchase an Overleaf plan to receive an increased AI allowance, or
- Wait up to 72 hours for your quota to reset
Do I need to pay to use Overleaf AI?
You can use Overleaf and Writefull’s AI features a limited number of times each day, for as long as you like. Buying an Overleaf plan will give you an increased Overleaf AI allowance, as well as access to other premium features and increased limits on collaborators and compile time.
What is Writefull?
Writefull helps students and researchers around the world to write better, faster, and with confidence. Overleaf and Writefull are both part of Digital Science, a company that drives global research progress through innovative, AI-powered technology.
Writefull doesn’t just copy-edit research texts, it helps with a range of writing tasks, from choosing words and rephrasing sentences, to writing abstracts, and more. Using custom language models trained on published research, Writefull gives high-quality language support tailored to research writing. Even some of the world’s leading scholarly publishers use Writefull’s AI language edits.
Why is Writefull available within Overleaf?
Overleaf and Writefull are both part of Digital Science, an AI-driven research technology and data company. Because of this, we’re able to work together to bring Writefull’s AI language assistance, TeXGPT, and editing tools directly into Overleaf, offering our users a much more seamless experience.