[Source: https://www.overleaf.com/for/government]
[Title: Overleaf for government - Overleaf, Online LaTeX Editor]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:30:39+00:00]

Fast, simple, secure scientific and technical writing overleaf for government
Overleaf is the collaborative LaTeX editor trusted by US Federal Government agencies and world-class research institutions. Choose from secure cloud or on-premises options.
FedRAMP® authorized
Overleaf is now Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program authorized.
Over 25 million users in the public sector, businesses, and research organizations worldwide
The essential writing platform for government benefitsresearch and technical teams
biotech
Researchers
Designed by scientists, Overleaf helps researchers communicate their ideas faster—from writing notes, to publishing articles, and giving presentations.
function
Mathematicians and economists
Powerful math packages and a built-in symbol palette mean mathematicians and economists can write more efficiently in Overleaf.
lock
Technical writers
Long, complex documentation is easy with Overleaf, thanks to clever bibliographies and referencing, built-in templates, and flawless formatting.
Security you can count on security
Protect your projects and proprietary information with enterprise-grade security for both our cloud and on-premises solutions.
security
Enterprise-grade security
Trust our enterprise-grade security in all the ways your team collaborates, shares, and stores their work.
lock
On-premises option
Server Pro is Overleaf hosted in your own secure environment, with enhanced administrative control over projects and user access.
groups
Managed user accounts and SSO
With managed user accounts and single sign-on options, you stay in control of your projects and user access.
verified_user
FedRAMP authorized
Overleaf Pro groups are Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) authorized.
assured_workload
Global privacy standards
Our policies and procedures protect your data. We comply with leading global regulations such as GDPR and UKGDPR.
workspace_premium
ISO certified
Overleaf, as part of Digital Science, is certified in compliance with ISO/IEC 27001:2022.
Plans to fit your needs plans
From small departments to entire agencies
On-premises Server Pro
For teams and organizations who want to host Overleaf in their own secure environment, including private cloud and air-gapped environments. With enhanced administrative control over projects and user access.
Pro
The FedRAMP authorized, secure cloud option for teams and organizations, with Overleaf premium features for all users. Plus managed user accounts and SSO. Reach out for compliance verification.
Don’t see the right fit for you?
Streamlined procurement procurement
Move quickly through the US Federal Government purchasing process.
FedRAMP authorized
Overleaf Group Professional is Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) authorized.Small business resellers
We partner with preferred small business resellers that are SDVOSB and/or HUBZone certified.NASA SEWP and other contract vehicles
We offer unique packages with additional support options and benefits via contract vehicles, including NASA SEWP and NITAAC CIO-CS GWACs.
With Overleaf, we now have a process for developing technical documentation which has virtually eliminated the time required to properly format and layout documents.
Join the organizations writing smarter in Overleaf customer stories
A lasting solution: technical documentation simplified with Overleafarrow_outward
Find out how Symplectic’s flagship research information management system went from strength to strength with Overleaf’s ‘flexible, scaleable’ authoring platform.
Overleaf solves authoring challenges at Canadian computer science labarrow_outward
Ontario Tech’s Vialab group saves ‘significant’ time writing, editing, and collaborating.
CERN accelerates global collaboration with Overleafarrow_outward
Discover how Overleaf is powering thousands of collaborations at one of the world’s foremost research organizations.
\begin
Our friendly team will help you find the right solution for your organization.