[Source: https://www.overleaf.com/for/enterprises]
[Title: LaTeX editor for enterprises - Overleaf, Online LaTeX Editor]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:30:39+00:00]

Enable smarter, faster scientific and technical writing overleaf for business
Overleaf is the collaborative LaTeX editor loved by research and technical teams. Choose from secure cloud or on-premises options.
Over 25 million users at businesses and research organizations worldwide love Overleaf
The essential writing platform for benefitsresearch and technical teams
biotech
Researchers
Designed by scientists, Overleaf helps researchers communicate their ideas faster—from writing notes, to publishing articles, and giving presentations.
function
Mathematicians and economists
Powerful math packages and a built-in symbol palette mean mathematicians and economists can write more efficiently in Overleaf.
lock
Technical writers
Long, complex documentation is easy with Overleaf, thanks to clever bibliographies and referencing, built-in templates, and flawless formatting.
Discover hassle-free scientific and technical writing
Empower your teams to write scientific and technical content efficiently. Use templates to enhance consistency and quality.
- Ideal for long and complex content
- Beautiful formatting
- Clever bibliographies and citations
- Better formulas, figures, and tables
- Choose from 1000s of templates or create your own
Collaborate without compromise
LaTeX novices and TeXperts alike can collaborate easily, without losing any of the LaTeX features your teams want and need.
- Sharing
- Simultaneous editing
- Commenting
- Real-time track changes
- Version control
- LaTeX Code Editor and Visual Editor
Write faster with AI assistance built for research
- Write faster with AI assistance built for research
- Write LaTeX and troubleshoot code errors faster
- Find missing references, verified against Dimensions
- Language suggestions tailored to technical and academic writing
- Ready-made prompts for common LaTeX tasks
- Your data is never used for training AI models without your consent
- AI features can be disabled giving organizations and users full control
Let us do the support
We’ll get your teams up and running in no time.
- No installation or maintenance (for cloud options)
- No LaTeX package management
- Detailed LaTeX learning and product help
- High-quality support from real people with LaTeX expertise
security
Security you can count on
Protect your projects and proprietary information with enterprise-grade security for both our cloud and on-premises solutions.
security
Enterprise-grade security
Trust our enterprise-grade security in all the ways your team collaborates, shares, and stores their work.
lock
On-premises option
Server Pro is Overleaf hosted in your own secure environment, with enhanced administrative control over projects and user access.
groups
Managed user accounts and SSO
With managed user accounts and single sign-on options, you stay in control of your projects and user access.
verified_user
Regulatory compliance
We comply with leading global regulations such as GDPR and UKGDPR.
assured_workload
Global privacy standards
Our policies and procedures protect your data by meeting global privacy standards and obligations.
workspace_premium
ISO certified
Overleaf, as part of Digital Science, is certified in compliance with ISO/IEC 27001:2022.
With Overleaf, we now have a process for developing technical documentation which has virtually eliminated the time required to properly format and layout documents.
Streamline workflows with clever integrations integrations Premium
Plans to fit your needs plans
From small departments to entire agencies
Standard
For teams and organizations who want to collaborate securely. Premium features for all users, including real-time track changes, project history, our standard Overleaf AI allowance, and much more.
Pro
All the benefits of Standard, plus single-sign on, managed user accounts, unlimited collaborators per project, and our max Overleaf AI allowance.
On-premises Server Pro
For teams and organizations who want to host Overleaf in their own secure environment, with enhanced administrative control over projects and user access.
Don’t see the right fit for you?
Join the organizations writing smarter in Overleaf customer stories
A lasting solution: technical documentation simplified with Overleafarrow_outward
Find out how Symplectic’s flagship research information management system went from strength to strength with Overleaf’s ‘flexible, scaleable’ authoring platform.
Overleaf solves authoring challenges at Canadian computer science labarrow_outward
Ontario Tech’s Vialab group saves ‘significant’ time writing, editing, and collaborating.
CERN accelerates global collaboration with Overleafarrow_outward
Discover how Overleaf is powering thousands of collaborations at one of the world’s foremost research organizations.
\begin
Our friendly team will help you find the right solution for your organization.