[Source: https://e.huawei.com/en/industries/education]
[Title: Online Intelligent Education Solution - Huawei Enterprise]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:13:40+00:00]

Intelligent Education
Accelerate the Digital Journey of Education
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Read our privacy policy>
Enterprise products, solutions & services
Unlocking Knowledge —
Everywhere, for Everyone
Today, education is ever-more personalized, ever-more hybrid. With new digital models emerging across the board — in classrooms, research labs, and administrative offices — intelligence and the cloud are increasingly critical, supported by fresh innovations in Information and Communications Technology (ICT) that are utterly transforming the education industry.
In this area of endeavor reaching back millennia — to Confucius, perhaps history's first private tutor, making its way through ancient Greece and Rome to the current day — the future of intelligent, digital education has arrived.
To date, we have served more than 7,800 customers in the education sector across over 120 countries and regions.
Solutions
Huawei Digital Training Solution combines the one-stop talent training platform, rich teaching resources, and practical hands-on training tools to provide multiple ICT courses for universities and vocational colleges, to cultivate ICT talent with theoretical understandings and applied skills.
Based on the cloud-edge-pipe-device infrastructure, Huawei Smart Classroom solution uses IdeaHub and Edge computing node as the core and integrates high-quality education partners to provide recording classrooms, collaborative and interactive classrooms, and lecture hall recording classrooms for education industry customers.
Huawei Smart Campus Solution realizes in-depth convergence of wired and wireless networks as well as IP + optical networks, provides AI-based proactive network Operations and Maintenance (O&M), and offers a simple, flexible, and easy-to-manage high-performance network for campus.
Huawei's Scientific Research Solution provides customers with differentiated ICT infrastructure that meet the data requirements of diverse research in different disciplines, fully unleashing computing power and boosting research efficiency.
As the education sector advances in digital intelligence, AI, 5G, and IoT are integrating with education operations, raising demands on data center infrastructure like computing, storage, and networking. Huawei offers comprehensive digital infrastructure solutions—storage, computing, networking—to accelerate education’s digital transformation.
Huawei FTTO Solution for University
Huawei Xinghe Intelligent High-Quality Primary and Secondary School Network Solution
Huawei Xinghe Intelligent High-Quality Campus Network Solution
News and Events
Resources
Load More
Load More
Load More
Load More