[Source: https://e.huawei.com/en/products/optical-sensing]
[Title: Optical Sensing – Huawei Enterprise]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:13:40+00:00]

Optical Sensing — Huawei OptiXsense
Construct an all-optical world for more secure, efficient production
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Read our privacy policy>
Enterprise products, solutions & services
Why Huawei OptiXsense?
Huawei Optical Sensing utilizes distributed fiber vibration technology to incorporate a multimodal sensing AI model into optical fiber sensing applications. This technology, combined with big data/GIS mapping capabilities, offers differentiated, multi-dimensional, and intelligent detection and warning solutions for a range of scenarios.
Products
Huawei OptiXsense EF3000-A50 is a distributed optical fiber sensing system that can quickly identify and accurately locate pipeline threats, and report alarms in real time using optical fibers deployed alongside pipelines. It implements 24/7 online warning along pipelines and provides the best solution for unattended inspection on oil and gas pipelines.
Huawei OptiXsense EF3000-F50 is a distributed optical fiber vibration sensor system designed for perimeter inspection scenarios. It can quickly identify intrusion events, accurately locate intrusion events, and report alarms through optical fibers routed on perimeter fences, implementing online real-time monitoring and security warning. Provides optimal solutions for airports, railways, and large-scale perimeter scenarios.
Huawei OptiXsense EF3000-F05 is a distributed vibration sensing system designed for small perimeters. It can quickly identify and accurately locate intrusions, and report alarms using optical fibers routed in perimeter fences to implement online real-time monitoring and security warning. It provides the best solution for unattended inspection in substations, oil and gas stations, and data centers.
Application Scenarios