[Source: https://www.iie.org/about/media-center/latest-news]
[Title: Latest News | IIE]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:21:07+00:00]

Latest News
As the world leader in international education and exchange, IIE partners with governments, corporations, and higher education institutions around the globe to build a more peaceful and equitable world. Learn more about our ongoing efforts to further our mission and other activities here.
Showing 41 Results
Strengthening Asia-Pacific Partnerships for the Global Good
At APAIE 2026, IIE Experts Led Five Sessions and Hosted a Reception for Global Partners The Asia-Pacific region is playing a key role in shaping the future of international higher education. At the 2026 Asia-Pacific Association for International Education (APAIE) Conference in Hong Kong, the Institute of International Education (IIE) reinforced its long-standing strategic partnerships and initiatives that create opportunities for universities, governments, students, and scholars in the region and worldwide. For more than 60 years, IIE has maintained deep […]
Recognizing Community Colleges’ Contributions to International Education
April is Community College Month. Standing at the forefront of workforce development and local economic growth, community colleges are increasingly exposing and connecting students with international education opportunities. This strategy prepares students to be more competitive in the future global workforce. Competencies such as language skills, adaptability, and the ability to collaborate in a globally […]
International Higher Education & Industry Partnerships: Shaping the Future of Work
IIE’s CEO, Jason Czyz, Convened an Expert Panel to Discuss the Role of International Education in Workforce Transformation At the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign—just two and a half hours outside of Chicago—something remarkable is happening: at any given time, hundreds of students and employers are collaborating to build solutions that meet disruption with innovation. […]
Why Student Mobility Is a Strategic Tool for Diplomacy and Workforce Development
IIE Connects Campuses Worldwide and Helps Countries Meet Global Talent Demand Many countries increasingly view academic and professional exchanges as core to building skills, fostering innovation, and expanding their global influence. Educational exchange has been instrumental for governments seeking to foster bilateral cooperation, promote talent development, and raise economic competitiveness. These international education initiatives cultivate […]
Building Capacity for Underwater Cultural Heritage Preservation in Saudi Arabia
The Course is Part of a Suite of Capacity Building Programs that IIE Supports in Partnership with the Heritage Commission The Institute of International Education (IIE) partnered with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s Heritage Commission and King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) to conduct a transformative Underwater Cultural Heritage training course in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. This initiative supports the Kingdom’s efforts to preserve […]
The Quad Fellowship Expands to Japan and Beyond
Welcoming Quad Fellows in Japan opens new opportunities for innovation and collaboration in STEM across the Indo-Pacific region Since its 2023 launch, the Quad Fellowship by IIE has grown into a dynamic network of scholars advancing STEM innovation and fostering collaboration across the United States and Indo-Pacific. Initially conceived as a cooperative effort among the Quad nations—Australia, […]
IAPP Thailand Builds Momentum in Workforce Development and STEM Collaboration
IIE’s Program Continues to Foster Collaboration Among Higher Education, Business, and Government As global economies grow increasingly digital, higher education partnerships are emerging as powerful drivers of innovation, collaboration and opportunity. This year’s International Academic Partnership Program (IAPP) Thailand—led by IIE with support from the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok and in partnership with Thailand’s Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation (MHESI)—brought […]
Four Things To Know About the Fall 2025 Snapshot
The Fall 2025 Snapshot on International Student Enrollment offers a critical look at international student enrollment trends in U.S. higher education, providing numbers as recent as the current fall semester. This report provides insights into where international education stands today and where it could be headed. Here are four things to know. 1. More Than […]