[Source: https://www.iie.org/get-involved/procurement-subaward-and-consultant-opportunities]
[Title: Procurement, Subaward, and Consultant Opportunities | IIE]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:21:07+00:00]

Procurement, Subaward, and Consultant Opportunities
Since 1919, IIE has been a world leader in the international exchange of people and ideas. We are honored to administer our own programs and programs on behalf of our sponsors and consider it a public trust. We translate our mission into reality every day by the actions of each and every one of us. Our success depends on how we treat each other and the standards of conduct to which we adhere in the process of representing IIE. Maintaining an unwavering commitment to high standards of business ethics and conduct is crucial to our future.
Combating Trafficking in Persons, Exploitation, Sexual Abuse, Child Neglect and Child Abuse
IIE is committed to oppose and combat all forms of human trafficking, exploitation, sexual abuse, child neglect and child abuse in our programs. IIE’s contractors, subcontractors, subrecipients, suppliers, consultants and their employees must comply with IIE’s CTIP and Safeguarding Plan and IIE’s Safeguarding Guidelines.
IIE works with non-profits, consultants, universities, and companies from around the globe to provide top-quality programming, goods, and services in support of IIE’s programs. IIE strongly encourages all businesses, including but not limited to small businesses, women’s business enterprises, minority-owned businesses, veteran owned businesses, and labor surplus area firms to submit quotes and proposals in response to IIE’s posted solicitations. We encourage all businesses to review the posted solicitations carefully and to submit questions during the Q&A period for each solicitation. Opportunities are advertised below.
Small Business
IIE is looking for small businesses that have the expertise and capabilities to support our overall scope of work. Learn more here.
Solicitations for Consultants
IIE engages consultants in a variety of fields to provide expertise. See solicitations here.
Solicitations for Goods and Services
IIE works with quality providers of goods and services including educational services, supplies, equipment, IT services, and more. View Solicitations here.
Solicitations for Subaward Opportunities
IIE makes subawards to universities and other implementation partners. Read about IIEs subaward opportunities.