[Source: https://www.iie.org/]
[Title: Homepage | IIE]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:21:07+00:00]

What We Do
Our regional expertise and global presence help us create a better tomorrow for individuals around the world
Our network of offices and affiliates around the world is led by talented and dedicated international education experts who implement initiatives driven by key regional needs as well as the goals of our sponsors.
Europe
In the aftermath of World War I, the Institute of International Education (IIE) first began its work by organizing student exchanges with several European governments as well as faculty and teacher exchanges.
The Americas
Managing international education exchange programs in the Western Hemisphere since its earliest days of operation, IIE has over the past 90 years opened additional offices throughout the United States and Latin America to serve this region.
Building Education Networks Across Africa
IIE delivers programs and works with global universities in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, reaching over 7,000 students, scholars, and professionals. As a result of IIE’s partnerships with corporations, international governments, ministries, foundations, and the U.S. government, thousands of students, scholars, and professionals from the region have gained access to the world’s leading higher education and training programs.
Sub-Saharan Africa
IIE has had a presence in Sub-Saharan Africa that spans over 30 years, and implements a range of programs to build leadership capacity and expand access to higher education in the region. With its office in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, and extensive history working in the region, IIE has a strong set of programs in leadership development, organizational effectiveness, and higher education scholarship administration.
South and Central Asia
Working closely with businesses, governments, and non-governmental organizations in the South and Central Asia region, IIE has developed and implemented a strong set of activities in higher education scholarship administration, leadership development, and critical development fields, including energy.
East Asia and the Pacific
IIE’s first-hand knowledge of local educational communities as well as decades of experience working with people from all backgrounds and cultures in East Asia and the Pacific have enabled us to cultivate a broad network of relationships among government, non-profit, and academic sectors.
Worldwide Presence In Over 85 Countries
From the South Pacific to the North Atlantic, IIE provides programs, development, research, and crisis support to everyone in international education.