[Source: https://www.iie.org/services/training-and-capacity-building]
[Title: Training and Capacity Building | IIE]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:21:07+00:00]

Training and Capacity Building
Develop a Talented Workforce
To help today’s workforce build the knowledge and skills they need to succeed in our interconnected world, IIE brings the classroom to the workplace. Partnering with local businesses, global corporations and government donors, IIE implements professional development and training programs that improve lives, strengthen communities and promote economic and social development. IIE designs and manages a wide variety of scholarship and professional training programs to help multinational corporations advance their business goals, develop leaders and increase access to higher education.
Train Educators
We believe in the power of international education and we know the tremendously important value of outstanding educators. We are proud to manage such programs as the Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistants Program and the Japan-U.S. Teacher Exchange Program which allow educators to share their expertise and hone their craft.
Support Professionals & NGO Leaders
With nearly a century of experience in the international exchange of people and ideas, we know the value of training local leaders on the ground. Programs we manage provide NGO leaders and other professionals with the training they need to create, implement and oversee sustainable initiatives.
Develop Skills for 21st Century Careers
We’re living in a digital, technological and interconnected world and today’s workers need the relevant knowledge and skills to succeed in it. IIE partners with organizations to create and implement professional development and training programs that equip workers with 21st century skills that help them thrive.
Faculty Development
IIE works with higher education institutions around the globe to connect faculty with opportunities abroad where they conduct research, share their skills and knowledge and increase mutual understanding and peaceful relations. This work breaks down borders and connects the world’s leading academic minds.