[Source: https://www.iie.org/services]
[Title: Services | IIE]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:21:07+00:00]

Services
Our approach to international education—borderless, impactful—is a proven way for governments and organizations to invest in global talent and solidify overseas relationships. Our programs extend our partners’ reach to more than 180 countries around the world, and our robust networks include thousands of universities, government partners, NGOs, and leading companies.
Scholarships and Fellowships
Established in 1919 with the founding premise that international exchange could make the world a more interconnected place, IIE has specialized in the international exchange of people and ideas. Global scholarships are of paramount importance and we manage many of the world’s most prestigious ones.
Training and Capacity Building
To help today’s workforce build the knowledge and skills they need to succeed in our interconnected world, IIE brings the classroom to the workplace. Partnering with local businesses, global corporations and government donors, IIE implements professional development and training programs that improve lives, strengthen communities and promote economic and social development.
Higher Education International Collaboration
IIE creates cross-border connections between higher ed institutions, faculty and students to cultivate research collaboration, foster diplomacy, and build capacity. We work closely with public and private higher ed institutions to develop and sustain institutional partnerships with their counterparts around the world. We leverage our extensive international networks and are uniquely positioned to help shape new universities and expand capabilities of existing ones.
Global Outreach and Recruitment
IIE supports higher education institutions to design effective outreach and student recruitment strategies to meet their international collaboration goals. We leverage our regional recruitment expertise and deep knowledge of target markets to customize recruitment activities that advance brand recognition, facilitate connections with key stakeholder networks, and identify and cultivate strong applicants to prestigious global programs.
Study Tours and Delegations
IIE creates cross-border connections between higher education institutions, faculty and students to cultivate research collaboration, foster diplomacy, build capacity and exchange ideas.
Evaluations and Impact Studies
IIE’s Research, Evaluation and Learning (REL) Unit provides holistic research and evaluation services to domestic and international governmental agencies, non-governmental organizations, foundations, and corporations.
Research Services
We combine leading experts in academic mobility with our in-house evaluation expertise to conduct timely and relevant research studies, assessments, and impact studies.
Leadership Development (US Exchange)
Exchanges fulfill the IIE mission of building leadership skills and enhancing the capacity of individuals and organizations to address local and global challenges. See more for IIE’s exchange visitor sponsorship services.
English Language Proficiency (TOEFL)
Utilized in more than 50 countries around the world, the TOEFL ITP tests are globally recognized and trusted tests for higher education institutions, nonprofit organizations, schools, and businesses to assess English-language proficiency. IIE certifies TOEFL ITP test centers in the United States, manages orders, and provides customer support. ETS manages distribution and scoring of paper and digital TOEFL ITP tests.