[Source: https://www.cdta.dz/en/research-and-technology/research-units/unite-de-recherche-urnn]
[Title: URNN Research Unit – Center for Development of Advanced Technologies]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:04:27+00:00]

Research Unit in Nanosciences and Nanotechnologies The Unit of Research in Nanosciences and Nanotechnologies (URNN) is a research unit within University of Setif-1 campus, part of the Center for Development of Advanced Technologies (CDTA). The URNN unit was established on MAI 16, 2021 by Directorate General for Scientific Research and Technological Development (DGRSDT) to boost research and development in the field of nanoscience and nanotechnology in Algeria. Nanoscience and Nanotechnology is an emerging area as a frontier of research and development in natural sciences and engineering. This area ability to convert nanoscience from fundamentals knowledge to useful engineering applications by observing, measuring, manipulating, controlling and manufacturing processes at the nanometer scale, that is, 10−9 meters. The exploration of new materials, processes, and phenomena in the nanoscale by developing a new nanofabrication process (bottom-up and top-down approaches) and by in-situ characterisation techniques (Nanoscale Microscopy and Spectroscopy), provides a deep understanding of relevant properties on atomic and molecular scale. The ability to understand and to precisely manipulate and control the structure and properties of nanomaterials leads to a fusion of materials science and nanoscience in key domains in nanotechnology. In fact, nanotechnology is multidisciplinary, involving physics, chemistry, biology, computing, electronics and engineering, all of which are required to unite in order to produce the next level of advancement in nanotechnology in the area of energy, environment, healthcare, defense and manufacturing. As technology develops further, new approaches will emerge. To strengthen Algeria’s nanotechnology program, we need a strong base of human resources to keep pace with the research and development sector. Thus, various initiatives have been taken recently by URNN to attract young talents to start their research projects in the interdisciplinary domain of nanoscience and nanotechnology. The Research Unit in Nanosciences and Nanotechnologies (URNN) stands as a shining example of creation of an advanced research facility of multidisciplinary research in Algeria, which will have links and sustainable cooperation with national laboratories, industry and society to create cutting-edge researches and technologies in Algeria. The missions of URNN are divided into two parts: Scientific research and development which includes: Acquire and develop experimental know-how in the field of nanoscience and nanotechnology and participate in establishing a tradition of experimental research in the country and support the research and development departments within the national industry. Establish and master the techniques of fabrication and characterization of materials at the nanoscale. Synthesize and study physical, chemical, and electronic nanoscale properties of modern material systems and their integration into technological applications. Master ultra-vacuum and cryogenics technologies required for nanocharacterization techniques. Promotion and diffusion of the notions and the usefulness of nanoscience and nanotechnology within the Algerian University, for socio-economic partners and general public. Partnership with state and private socio-economic actors. Dr. Hamza BELHADJ URNN Director