[Source: https://monday.com/blog/product]
[Title: Product Updates Blog | monday.com]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:25:26+00:00]

Product updates
Introducing mondayDB 1.0 – Infrastructure Built for Performance, Scale, and Flexibility
This week, we announced that we have officially rolled out mondayDB 1.0 to 100% of our customers. To mark the occasion, we thought it was only fitting to take you, reader, through the journey of just how the mondayDB came to be. mondayDB is the new data infrastructure behind our ...
monday.com pricing: which plan is right for you?
You’ve finished your free 14-day trial, and now you’re ready to find the right monday.com pricing plan for you. With a plan that is flexible, transparent,...
Putting tech to good use: how monday.com is supporting NGOs in Ukraine
While Kyiv, Ukraine might be 2,800 miles from our monday.com headquarters in Tel Aviv, the humanitarian crisis taking place there is incredibly close to our hearts. ...
Introducing the monday apps marketplace
At monday.com, we understand that different teams have different needs and successful businesses need to be flexible and agile. That’s why we launched the monday...
Demystifying Agentic CRM: Why “AI Dust” Isn’t Enough for Revenue Teams
As revenue leaders, we are asked this question multiple times a day: “What are you doing with AI?” It’s clear that our teams need to start talking about what AI actually means for our revenue...
Our Latest Evolution: Welcome to the Agentic Era at monday.com
Our customizable AI agents are now officially available to our customers. Designed to seamlessly integrate with new and existing workflows, these agents will provide you...
When 1,000 Students Becomes 10,000: Real-World Lessons on Scaling Higher Ed Operations
Higher ed runs on mission, but too often, it’s held together by inboxes, spreadsheets, and institutional memory. In this webinar, leaders from Trine University’s...
From managing work to doing it with monday.com and Microsoft Copilot
AI is changing how work gets done – not someday, but right now. For teams using both Microsoft 365 and monday.com, this means your work, your data, and your decisions...
monday.com recognized at re:Invent: AWS EMEA Tech Partner of the Year & Global Business Apps...
We’re excited to share that we’ve been recognized in the 2025 AWS Partner Awards with two major honors: AWS EMEA Tech Partner of the Year and Global Finalist for AWS...
How Washington County modernized without a mandate (and what other governments can learn)
Here’s what doesn’t work when introducing new technology in government: mandates from leadership, massive budgets you don’t have and trying to get everything...
Built to trust: Redefining AI in sales
Sales is changing. Fast. AI is no longer a futuristic concept, it’s the new foundation of modern sales. From intelligent lead scoring to automated follow-ups, it’s...
Introducing AI at work: From vision to value monday research’s latest report
A Nielsen survey of 500 directors and millions of monday.com workflows reveals the surprising drivers, blockers, and anxieties shaping AI adoption AI has promised...
Balancing human connection and AI: Building the future of work, together
AI in the workplace is advancing faster than most of us imagined. Every week brings a new tool or breakthrough that promises to reshape how we work. But there’s a...
Work smarter with monday.com inside Microsoft Copilot
AI is no longer something teams experiment with on the side; it’s becoming part of how everyday work gets done. That’s why we’re excited to bring monday.com’s...
Why AI tools fail without clean data (and how to fix it)
If your sales team is drowning in spreadsheets, chasing down pipeline updates in Slack, and manually rebuilding forecasts every month, you’re wasting time and...
The next era of work: From managing tasks to getting them done with AI
AI is no longer the future of work; it’s already reshaping how leading businesses operate today. But while interest in AI has exploded, most organizations are still...
monday.com introduces new connector for Anthropic’s Claude
monday.com helps teams plan, run, and track their work in one place. With our new Claude connector, you can now bring AI directly into your monday.COM workflows, giving...