[Source: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/students]
[Title: Student Developer Resources | Microsoft Azure]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:01:30+00:00]

Student developer resources
Gain skills to jump-start your career and make a positive impact on the world.
Jump-start your career in tech
Find the resources you need to learn everything from the top programming languages to cloud developer skills that just might help you land your first job. Get empowered to achieve more with tools and programs just for students.
Dream it
Fuel your dream projects by learning about developer tools, cloud technologies, and more.
Build it
Use your developer skills to start building in the cloud.
Live it
Meet other students who are passionate about technology and get involved in the tech community.
Learn something new
Start learning about programming, cloud technologies, and world-class developer tools. Microsoft makes it easy to learn through our curated videos, Microsoft Learn platform, and exclusive content created in partnership with schools such as Carnegie Mellon University and Oxford University. The best part? It’s all free!
Python for Beginners (video series)
Check out this popular series of short videos covering topics ranging from configuring Visual Studio Code to understanding conditional logic and start building your Python skills.
Azure fundamentals
If you’re interested in the cloud but aren’t quite sure what you can do with it, start here.
CMU Cloud Developer course
Take Carnegie Mellon University's course, Cloud Developer, through Microsoft Learn. You’ll learn about the software engineering principles of the cloud, including topics such as virtualization and programming for scalability.
Build with the best tools
GitHub
Build software and collaborate with 40 million other developers on GitHub. Do everything from hosting and reviewing code to managing projects—and take advantage of programs and offers just for students. Get free access to great developer tools in the GitHub Student Developer Pack, become a technology community leader as a GitHub Campus Expert, or just explore.
Visual Studio Code
Code in Python, Java, C++, or any other language using Visual Studio Code. This free, open-source, and language-agnostic source code editor is lightweight yet powerful and runs on your desktop—whether you use Windows, macOS, or Linux. Write using IntelliSense smart code completion and debug your app right from the editor. Find out how Visual Studio Code helps you be more productive—and remember, it’s free.
Azure for Students
Get $100 in Azure credits and free access to popular cloud services and developer tools with Azure for Students. Simply sign up with your school email to verify that you’re a student—no need to enter a credit card. From there, download popular developer tools like Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code along with learning resources on topics like AI, machine learning, and data science.
Microsoft for Startups
Speed up development and save runway with up to $150k in free credits to Azure, redeemable across services. Plus, credits to OpenAI, LinkedIn, and more through Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub.
Get involved in the community
Check out these programs to take your tech skills to the next level.
Microsoft Learn Student Ambassadors
Join a group of on-campus student leaders with a passion for sharing technology with classmates. Become a Learn Student Ambassador to gain leadership experience, get access to extra resources, and develop your technical and career skills.
Imagine Cup
Bring your tech idea to life by participating in the Imagine Cup, a global competition that empowers the next generation of computer science students to create applications that change how we live, work, and play. Every year, tens of thousands of students from around the world compete for cash, travel, prizes—and the chance to take home the Imagine Cup!
Hackathons
Join a hackathon to learn skills that you may not gain in the classroom, meet new friends, and work on a project that you’re passionate about. Microsoft sponsors many hackathons each year through Major League Hacking (MLH), the official student hackathon league.
Work at Microsoft
Discover opportunities at Microsoft that empower you to create things that help others and have a positive impact on the world. Come as you are and do what you love.
Internships and careers
When people with a passion for technology get together, they create things that change the world. Microsoft offers a variety of programs designed to help you jump-start your career while working on projects that matter.
Interviewing
Get excited about the possibility of landing a job at Microsoft. Find out how to prepare for a technical interview and understand what to expect.
#MicrosoftLife
What’s it like to work at Microsoft? Check out the stories of real employees on Microsoft Life, and follow #MicrosoftLife on your favorite social sites.