[Source: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/solutions/serverless]
[Title: Serverless on Azure | Microsoft Azure]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:01:30+00:00]

Reduce the time spent on non-core business tasks by freeing developers from infrastructure provisioning and management. Build and deploy apps faster using developer-friendly APIs, low-code/no-code services, and ready-to-use AI models.
Build highly responsive and resilient systems using serverless compute on Azure. React in real time, scale on demand, and innovate faster.
Use fast, elastic scaling to meet any traffic needs on demand. Serverless compute on Azure adjusts easily to your business growth, whether you're handling a sudden traffic surge or planning for long-term expansion.
Services
Simplify your cloud journey
Choose from a range of serverless execution environments, fully managed services, and a comprehensive set of developer tools and services to build your applications.
Azure Functions
Execute code—written in the language of your choice—to build event-driven apps, stateful workflows, and AI agent orchestrations. Scale on demand and pay only for the time your code is executed. The open-source Functions runtime is available as a managed service on Azure and Azure Stack.
Azure Container Apps
Easily build and deploy containerized apps or microservices using serverless containers, without managing complex infrastructure. Write code in your preferred programming language or framework with support for Distributed Application Runtime (Dapr) and Kubernetes Event-driven Autoscaling (KEDA).
Azure Logic Apps
Connect all your services, systems, and data. Drive business process automation and orchestrate AI agents to enhance decision-making with real-time insights and enterprise-grade security with low code.
Azure Service Bus
Get reliable, enterprise-grade cloud messaging as a service with message queues and publish-subscribe topics.
Azure Event Grid
Build data pipelines, integrate applications, and create event-driven serverless solutions with a fully managed publish-subscribe messaging service.
Azure Event Hubs
Stream millions of events per second from any source to build dynamic data pipelines and immediately respond to business challenges. Continue data processing during emergencies using geo-disaster recovery and geo-replication features.
Azure SQL Database serverless compute tier
Optimize price performance for single databases with intermittent and unpredictable usage patterns by using the serverless compute tier for Azure SQL Database. This option is for scenarios that can tolerate some delay in compute warm-up after idle periods.
Azure Cosmos DB
Create database triggers, input bindings, and output bindings with Azure Cosmos DB—a globally distributed, massively scalable, multi-model database service.
Foundry Agent Service
Securely design, deploy, and scale AI Agents with ease.
Azure OpenAI
Build custom generative AI solutions that are enterprise-ready.
Foundry Models
Discover, evaluate, customize, and deploy open-source and foundational AI models.
Azure AI Search
Deliver better AI experiences with a knowledge retrieval system built for advanced retrieval augmented generation (RAG) and modern search.
Design e-commerce web apps with simple order processing using Azure Functions and Web Apps. Focus on building personalized experiences while Azure services handle the infrastructure.
Build an event-driven solution that ingests a stream of data, processes the data, and writes the results to a back-end database. Design for resiliency, scalability, availability, and cost optimization while planning for disaster recovery.
Create a solution that processes changes to underlying data within a web view, without the need for a page refresh, by using real-time services. Examples that use this scenario include real-time tracking of products and goods, and social media solutions.
Customers are doing great things with Azure serverless
“We designed the back end to handle traffic spikes by caching AI results and scaling compute dynamically. Using Azure Functions (Flex Consumption plan), we ensured back-end processes could handle thousands of simultaneous requests without breaking.”
Josh Wagoner, Developer, Pixel Lab
“Because we didn’t have to manage infrastructure, we could focus entirely on assistant logic and system behavior, not deployment pipelines or scale policies.”
Pablo Damiani, Head of Practice at SOUTHWORKS
“We optimized developer workflows with CI/CD pipelines using GitHub Actions and scaled applications with Azure Container Apps”
Anna Maria Brunnhofer-Pedemonte, CEO, Impact AI
“This is just the beginning. With Azure, the possibilities are limitless.”
Sunil Ramakrishnappa, Sr. Director of Engineering, Global MarTech, Coca-Cola
“We’re proud to pioneer one of the most advanced AI implementations in the league. This experience welcomes fans who previously couldn’t fully engage—and it’s built on a foundation that turns our developer wish lists into reality.”
Jared Chavez, Technical and Model Development Lead, PS&E
“There is no GenAI without responsible AI.”
Nayanjyoti Paul, Associate Director and Chief Azure Architect for Gen AI, Accenture
Explore durable functions to build custom agents and durable task scheduler for managed storage backend support across stateful workflows using Azure Functions.