[Source: https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/explore/trusted-cloud]
[Title: Trust your cloud | Microsoft Azure]
[Backend: httpx]
[Fetched: 2026-05-15T11:01:30+00:00]

Trust your cloud
Get security, reliability, and sustainability from the ground up—backed by a team of experts, and proactive compliance trusted by enterprises, governments, and startups.
4B+ annual USD investment in cybersecurity and 10,000+ security experts
Security is foundational for Azure. Take advantage of multi-layered security provided across physical datacenters, infrastructure, and operations with cyber security experts actively monitoring to protect your business assets and data.
100+ compliance offerings
Proactively safeguard your data and streamline compliance with the most comprehensive compliance coverage of any cloud service provider.
Uncompromising commitment to privacy
Your data, powering your experiences, controlled by you. Our core privacy principle is you own your data; we will never use it for marketing or advertising purposes. Feel confident about where your data is stored and secured.
78 trillion threat signals analyzed daily
Put the cloud and large-scale intelligence from decades of Microsoft security experience to work. Make your threat detection and response smarter and faster with AI-driven security signals that modernize your security operations.
Transparency and built-in resiliency
Take advantage of resiliency features that help you design and operate your mission-critical systems, with added confidence, on a trusted cloud platform.
Sustainable by design
Harness the full benefits of cloud and AI with cloud services delivered by an infrastructure that’s designed, built, and operated with sustainability in mind.
Learn more about our breadth of security and compliance products and services
Azure Sentinel
Put cloud-native SIEM and intelligent security analytics to work to help protect your enterprise
Security Center
Unify security management and enable advanced threat protection across hybrid cloud workloads
Azure Trust Center
Learn about our four foundational principles of trust: security, privacy, compliance, and transparency
Azure Policy
Implement corporate governance and standards at scale for Azure resources
Azure Site Recovery
Keep your business running with built-in disaster recovery service
Azure Monitor
Full observability into your applications, infrastructure, and network