1

2
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction

8
Chapter 1 - A business plan or a pitch deck?

10
•	 Business plan vs Pitch decks
•	 Use for a business plan today
•	 The pros and cons of business plans today
•	 Use for a pitch deck today
•	 The pros and cons of pitch decks today
Chapter 2 - Slides you need in a pitch deck

15
•	 The cover
•	 The concept
•	 The problem
•	 The solution
•	 Market size
•	 Competition
•	 Competitive advantage
•	 Product
•	 Customers
•	 Traction
•	 Business model
•	 Financials
•	 Other investors
•	 Team
•	 Advisors
•	 Use of funds
•	 Back cover
Chapter 3 - How long it takes to create a pitch deck
27
•	 Timing is critical
•	 How long it takes to make it
•	 Hacks for creating a pitch deck faster
•	 Steps to creating a winning pitch deck

3
Chapter 4 - Scenarios where a pitch deck is important
31
•	 Honing your startup business idea
•	 Enrolling advisors
•	 Recruiting cofounders
•	 Recruiting team members
•	 Securing early customers
•	 In place of a business plan
•	 Startup fundraising
•	 The exit
Chapter 5 - What is the best font for a pitch deck

35
•	 What is a font?
•	 Guiding principles and best practices
•	 Other factors to consider when designing your pitch deck
Chapter 6 - Do’s and don’ts when creating pitch deck
40
•	 The power of pitch decks
•	 The do’s of creating a winning pitch deck
•	 The don’ts of creating a pitch deck
Chapter 7 - Deadly signs of a bad pitch deck

45
•	 Asking for a NDA first
•	 It is ugly
•	 Your cover slide lacks info
•	 There are too many slides
•	 It looks too complicated and detailed
•	 Not being crystal clear about the problem
•	 Overstating big claims
•	 Missing key data
•	 Not acknowledging the competition
•	 No USP
Chapter 8 - Why the cover slide is so important in pitch
decks

49
•	 The science of first impressions

4
•	 What should be on your pitch deck cover slide?
•	 The cover slide and capability?
•	 The cover slide vs Closing slide
Chapter 9 - How to include an executive summary in a
pitch deck

53
•	 What is an executive summary?
•	 How to send your executive summary when pitching
investors?
•	 Creating an executive summary slide for your pitch deck
Chapter 10 - How to address the problem in a pitch deck
58
•	 How important is the problem
•	 Where to start addressing the problem in a pitch deck
•	 The most important slide in your pitch deck
•	 The story
•	 Market slide
•	 The solution slide
•	 Competitive analysis
•	 The team slide
Chapter 11 - How to position the solution in a pitch deck 	 62
•	 It is all about the solution
•	 Positioning starts with your cover slide
•	 The problem slide
•	 Market slide
•	 Competition slides
•	 What is your solution?
•	 How are you positioning it for a sale?
•	 Go easy on the features
•	 Business model
•	 The team
Chapter 12 - How to show the target customers in a pitch
deck

67
•	 The importance of knowing and showing your target
customers
•	 Defining your target customers

5
Chapter 13 - How to capture the market size in a pitch
deck

72
•	 Presenting the market size in your pitch deck
•	 Where market size fits in your pitch deck
•	 Capturing market size in a pitch deck
•	 Total market size
•	 Total addressable market
•	 Serviceable and addressable market
•	 Where there is no existing market
•	 Get a second opinion
Chapter 14 - How to show your competitor landscape in a
pitch deck

77
•	 The importance of competition in your pitch deck
•	 Who is your competition
•	 Identifying the competitor landscape
•	 How to use your competitors to your advantage
•	 Your competitive advantage
•	 The competitor landscape
Chapter 15 - What is the marketing strategy in a pitch
deck

82
•	 The importance of the advertising strategy in a pitch
deck
•	 The problem
•	 The solution
•	 Market size
•	 Target market and target customers
•	 Traction
•	 The team
•	 Business model
•	 Is marketing a part of your fundraising ask?
Chapter 16 - How to share your traction in a pitch deck
86
Top triggers for getting your startup funded
•	 The big deal about traction
•	 What is traction?
•	 How to project your traction in a pitch deck?

6
•	 How much traction is enough?
•	 Questions to expect on your traction
•	 Ways to boost traction
Chapter 17 - How to position the team in a pitch deck
91
•	 The most important slide in your pitch deck
•	 What investors are looking for in a fundable team
•	 Who counts as your team in your pitch deck?
•	 When to start introducing the team in your pitch
•	 What to include on your team slide
•	 What if your team could be stronger?
Chapter 18 - How to present the amount to raise in a pitch
deck

95
•	 How much should you be raising
•	 The ask slide
•	 Positioning the ask
Chapter 19 - How to nail your pitch deck narrative 	 99
•	 A great startup is built on…
•	 Find the best story for your pitch deck
•	 The characters
•	 Your why
•	 How are you going to be the champions of this story?
•	 Paint your vision of the future with a great pitch deck
story
Chapter 20 - How to present your pitch deck to investors 103
•	 Why are you raising money?
•	 Who are the right investors?
•	 Making a shortlist
•	 Polishing your pitch deck
•	 Presenting your pitch deck
Chapter 21 - How to send a pitch deck to friends and
family

107
•	 Pitching friends and family
•	 The place of the friends and family round

7
•	 Who are friends and family?
•	 The pros and cons of raising from friends and family
•	 Curating your pitch deck for friends and family rounds
•	 How to share and send your pitch deck to friends and
family
•	 Next steps
Chapter 22 - How to send a pitch deck to a venture capital
firm

111
•	 Venture capital role in fundraising
•	 Start with why
•	 Know your who
•	 How to send your pitch deck to venture capital firms
•	 What is next?
Chapter 23 - How to share a pitch deck securely
115
•	 Why pitch deck security is important
•	 Who should see your pitch deck?
•	 Who should not see your pitch deck?
•	 Keep everything secure
•	 Options for sharing your pitch deck securely
Chapter 24 - What do I need other than a pitch deck? 119
•	 What else you need to start a startup
•	 What else you need to raise money
Conclusion

123

8
Introduction
Pitch decks have become synonymous with startups and
raising capital in recent years. If you are starting a new
business of any type or are planning to pivot or grow an
existing one, you need a pitch deck.
There are many misconceptions about pitch decks, what
should be in them, how they are used, and also the best
business templates sites to find them to get started. Check out
this guide to creating a great deck that fuels all of your goals.
Put simply, a pitch deck is a group of slides, organized in a
presentation. They are typically used to facilitate and support
fundraising efforts for startups prior to going public or an exit.
A pitch deck is used to explain your business, it’s strengths
and the opportunity for those who get involved.
A pitch deck is not an in depth business plan or detailed
breakdown of everything about your business and how the
technology works. It is a tool for simplifying the description of
the business and a sales tool.
Pitch decks have been most commonly created in Microsoft
PowerPoint in the past. Yet, there are many new tools
available. This can include new slide building and presentation
tools and graph and financial modeling software.
It is important not to get too complicated. A pitch deck is
all about simplifying and streamlining. You will likely have
multiple people collaborating on creating your pitch deck from
inside and outside of your organization. You’ll need to be able
to easily and efficiently share your pitch deck and multiple

9
drafts and variations with multiple people. This will include
advisers and coaches and potential investors.
You may find something like Google Drive ideal for optimizing
this entire process. As well as finding a proven existing pitch
deck template and plug in your data, instead of trying to
reinvent the wheel.
While you may ultimately publish your pitch deck on various
online platforms, and directly send it out via email or other
direct messages, as well as presenting it on screen in person,
hosting it online can be one of the most efficient.
This way you can give and revoke access instantly as desired,
update your pitch deck in real time and customize it to new
audiences, and avoid issues with large attachments, or losing
it.
Your pitch deck will always be evolving. You’ll need one at
every round of fundraising. You’ll be continually updating it
during rounds and between them. Even when it comes time to
shop and sell your company you’ll be using some variation of
this as a pitch book.
Contrary to some misconceptions you aren’t going to just get
by without a pitch deck. Neither can you just expect your
pitch deck to do everything for you. Even if you have fabulous
relationships with partners at VC firms who want to invest,
they’ll need the deck to present to their partners and as part
of their process and due diligence for their investors. In the
reverse, you can have the best deck in the world, but still
need to be able to present verbally and to field questions from
investors.
In fact, today a pitch deck can also play a significant role as
a form of business plan and as a recruiting tool for key team
members and advisors. You’ll even use it to communicate your
company to outsourced workers.

10
Chapter 1
A Business Plan or a Pitch Deck
Which should you be focusing on first as a startup founder, a
business plan or pitch deck?
For decades entrepreneurs and business owners believed they
needed to focus on building a comprehensive business plan.
All before taking real action. There were good reasons for
that. More recently, many entrepreneurs have gone almost
exclusively with pitch decks in place of a traditional business
plan.
Which of these two approaches is best? Does it depend on the
type of business you are starting or if you plan any fundraising
efforts? Is a hybrid approach the wisest move? Or should you
stay intensely focused on one before the other?
Definitions: Business Plans Vs. Pitch Decks
A traditional business plan is a fairly lengthy text based
document. It lays out all of the parts of the business. From the
corporate structure to marketing plans to startup needs and
growth plans and financial forecasts for the next five years.
Plus the much longer term game plan. This is typically in a
Microsoft Word style format, and can easily run 25 pages. It
begins with a brief executive summary. Which can be 1-3 pages
long on its own.
A pitch deck is a slide based presentation. Think PowerPoint
or Google Slides formatting. Ideally your pitch deck will run

11
between 5 to 20 slides. It is a very short, simple and compact
version of a traditional business plan. Pitch decks emerged
specifically for pitching startups to potential investors for
fundraising. However, they are increasingly replacing business
plans.
Uses For A Business Plan Today
Are business plans still relevant today?
Yes and no. Every business and entrepreneur should have
a plan. We all know what failing to plan means. Yet, what
is effective and valuable in terms of business plans may be
changing and evolving.
A business plan really helps you get depth and length in your
plans. It gives more clarity than you could ever fit into a pitch
deck. This process helps entrepreneurs really think through
the details and big vision and long term game plan. It helps
you get granular with marketing plans, startup costs, cash flow
needs, and financial projections.
It also helps to give you a framework to start building on. As
well as really thinking through a functional business model.
Investors, advisors and other key players may be completely
satisfied with seeing a one page business plan, executive
summary and bullet pointed action plan. Providing that
accompanies a great pitch deck.
However, there may still be some scenarios in which you will
be asked for your business plan. This includes applying for
some types of loans, leasing space and joining certain groups
or applying for licenses.
The Pros & Cons Of Business Plans Today
The advantages:

12
●	 Being forced to think through the details
●	 Having an in depth plan and awareness of your real
needs
●	 Being able to back up the hype with something tangible
●	 Credibility with potential partners and early investors
●	 Being prepared if you are asked for it
●	 Having a comprehensive guide and roadmap to follow
The cons:
●	 Chances are no one else will ever read it
●	 Things move so fast, most may be irrelevant in a couple
of months
●	 It’s a blackhole for your time, energy and momentum
●	 Many entrepreneurs get bogged down here and miss
their best opportunities
●	 Additional expenses with negligible returns
●	 Appearing like a novice to experienced investors
Uses For A Pitch Deck Today
A pitch deck is for more than just fundraising.
Pitch decks are synonymous with startup fundraising. Yet,
they shouldn’t be exclusively tied to fundraising activities or
only when you are out there actively raising for a round.
In fact, you’ll find pitch decks useful from before day one
through your exit.
These scenarios include:
●	 Honing your initial concept and model, like with a
business plan
●	 Gaining initial feedback
●	 Recruiting cofounders
●	 Enrolling advisors

13
●	 Hiring early and key team members
●	 Pitching investors on and offline
●	 Securing early customers and strategic partnerships
●	 Through multiple fundraising round
●	 Getting to an exit
The Pros & Cons Of Pitch Decks Today
The advantages:
●	 Expected when raising capital
●	 A streamlined framework for creating a mini business
plan
●	 Easily and efficiently updated for multiple purposes
and over time
●	 Much faster to create
●	 More likely that you will use and refer to it often
●	 Easier to share
●	 Enables you to get down to business faster
The cons:
●	 Can be an excuse not to have a real plan of model
●	 Dangerous gaps from not thinking through the details
●	 Not prepared when a business plan is requested
●	 Emphasis on fluff and hype versus substance
●	 Very short term outlook
Summary
There are many advantages and disadvantages of solely
running on a traditional business plan or new modern pitch
deck. Trying to juggle both simultaneously can further
compound the cons, distraction and length of time before you
really get into the game.
Today, it seems the best prepared entrepreneurs, especially

14
when it comes to getting funded are those with a strong
pitch deck, and at least a one page business plan, and strong
executive summary.
Do not dismiss the importance and value of having a real plan.
You could be sabotaging your own mission and future. If you
plan to stay a small local business or solopreneur forever a real
business plan is smart. Though as the founder of a fast moving
startup which needs funding, a pitch deck can be even more
important. You’ll probably be moving so fast your business
plan will never keep up.
If you have to choose one, it should be focusing on knocking
out a winning pitch deck. This process will also give you
many of the answers and framework for fleshing out your
real business plan. At least this way you’ll be poised to raise
money, and build out your team and gain early clients in the
meantime.

15
Chapter 2
Slides you need in a pitch deck
Ready to raise millions of dollars for your next startup
fundraising round? Is your pitch deck fundable?
You may be wondering what are the slides you need in your
pitch deck?
Below is an in-depth commentary on a pitch deck template
that I put together some time ago. It includes the slides you
need in your pitch deck and that are necessary to pass the pitch
test with potential investors and get the money you need to
take your business to the next level.
Here is a quick summary of what those slides are:
1.	 Cover
2.	 Concept
3.	 Problem
4.	 Solution
5.	 Market Size
6.	 Competition
7.	 Competitive Advantage
8.	 Product
9.	 Customers
10.	Traction
11.	Business Model
12.	Financials
13.	Other Investors
14.	Team
15.	Advisors
16.	Use of Funds
17.	Back Cover

16
Here are the slides you’ll need to pass the pitch test with
potential investors and get the money you need to take your
business to the next level…
1. Cover Slide
First impressions are everything. This is especially true when
it comes to pitch decks and asking for investment. This is
your most important slide. Consider that even if you have an
existing startup and have raised before, even a 20 page pitch
deck can be a little long for the average investor’s attention
span. If you’re only asking for $20M, then each page is worth
a million dollars. You cover is probably worth a lot more than
that. If it isn’t awesome, no one is going to look at the next
slide. Nail it and you’ll have a huge advantage over 99% of
your competing startups.
This slide needs to show clearly what is the company and
perhaps insert some of the contact details of the CEO like
email or telephone number. This way potential investors know
where to reach you in the event there is further interest.
Having a nice high-resolution image as the cover of the pitch
deck definitely helps. You may use a plain logo or include as
well an image on the background. Note that people tend to
associate memories to images and for that reason, you want
to have the investor remembering your pitch deck easily by
including a powerful image.
2. The Concept
What is your startup idea all about? This is a good slide to
make an impact. Think about including a powerful image and
tagline.
3. What’s The Problem?
What is the big and urgent problem that your business is

17
trying to solve? What do they have to believe to buy-in to your
mission? What storytelling examples can you give?
The problem needs to be very clear and to the point. This is
your chance to connect with the investor and to have them
relate in a certain way with what you are doing.
When an investor gets involved with your venture is either
because of one of the following things:
● They have experienced the same problem in the past
● There is a clear sense of ROI down the line for them
● Given their professional expertise they understand it
(e.g. doctors with healthcare)
If an investor falls inside the three buckets of interest cited
above at the same time, that means you got your lead investor.
This may result in you securing at least 20% of the financing of
the entire round that you are looking to raise.
When you are pitching in person you want to tell them the
story of how you came across this problem. I see this often on
the guests that I interview on the DealMakers Podcast where
some of the most successful entrepreneurs share how they did
it.
4. The Solution
How is your startup solving the big problem? What’s your
vision and grand strategy? The tactics may change, but the
idea should resonate as making sense.
Keep in mind the solution needs to be just one. Not three or
four, especially if you are an early-stage startup. The last thing
you want is the investor thinking that you are all over the place
without focus.
On this slide, you want to come across as clear and as concise

18
as possible. Perhaps a good image of the product in action is
a good combination with some text in order to make a good
impression.
Avoid statements referencing you being the only one doing
this, you being the clear leader, etc. There are at least 100
people that have come up with that idea before you and other
companies that may be tackling that same problem with a
different approach.
If you are presenting in person I would recommend doing a
demo of the product LIVE. Much more powerful than walking
them through a slide. This way they will get it right away.
The problem and solution are slides you need in your pitch
deck with a proper flow. The solution needs to come after your
problem slide with a bang.
5. Market Size
How big is this space? How big is projected to get? What is
your potential share of this market. If your numbers aren’t in
the billions you probably need to think bigger.
The market size is critical as it will also determine the potential
returns for the investor down the line. Probably one of the
most important slides you need in your pitch deck. If you have
the best product and the best time with a small market nothing
matters. Too much risk for little reward.
Also, it is critical here to show growth. The last thing you want
is to have the investor thinking that your market has touched
the peak. For this reason, you want to project how the market
will be growing over the course of the next 5 to 10 years.
6. The Competition
Yes, you have competition. Even if you think you are creating a

19
new market, there are potential competitors. Be sure you have
done your research well here, or you will fall flat on your face
hard.
This is one of the slides you need in your pitch showcased via
a diagram like the one showing above. This, in essence, is a
good idea to show the investor the competitors that you have
executed in your space. How you compare to them and where
you land with your value proposition. A good resource to find
potential competitors is Crucnhbase where you can search by
sector or even keywords related to your business.
As shown on this slide you want to clearly differentiate
yourself from the rest so that the person that is reviewing the
slide gets what makes your company so unique.
As you can find your logo needs to be on the top right-hand
side. From a psychology perspective that is where the eye
tends to go when looking at a new slide. You want to make
sure that your logo stands out from other competitors.
Perhaps another slide that you want to include is one that
describes how much capital each competitor has already raised
in the past and at what valuation. This could help in providing
some perspective of how much the market is paying. This
could play in your favor when the time comes to negotiate the
terms of the deal or proceeding with a potential investment.
7. Competitive Advantages
Even Uber has serious competitors. Compare how you will
stand out against the competition, or even become an attractive
partner or acquisition prospect for them.
As part of the slides you need in your pitch deck, on this slide,
you want to talk about the advantages of your business and
product. Some of the things you can include might be patents
and other defensive IP, distribution channels that you have,

20
partners, etc.
Basically what you want to communicate is why you have such
a unique position within your industry that sets you as one of
the leaders.
The best way to present this is with bullet points. You can
also display some of the logos of your partners in the event
your advantage is on distribution channels via business
development deals.
8. Your Product
What is your product or service? You may even want to add
screenshots to show it off.
To make it even more powerful you may want to add some
description about the product itself and some quotes of some
of your existing clients talking about how much they love your
product.
As mentioned above you could also do a demo of the product
to everyone in the room if you are doing this in person. This
is obviously one of the slides you need in your pitch deck but
if you are in person you can take it away and bake it into your
narrative.
9. Customers
Who are your customers exactly? Are they enterprise level, B2B
or B2C? What is their profile? What are their use cases?
What is the feedback you’ve already received from potential
customers and paying users? What is the press and others
saying about your startup?
Here are well you could go as far as mentioning some of the
metrics and historical data that you have been able to gather

21
from your own customers. From the slides you need in your
pitch deck this one will give some insights to the investor on
how well you are tracking and measuring success.
Here are a few ideas:
•	 How long do they stay in your platform
•	 What are the numbers around repeating customers
•	 What is the customer profile (age, location, etc)
•	 Customer acquisition cost
•	 The lifetime value of your customer
10. Traction
What traction have you accumulated so far? What is expected
by investors will vary by funding round. It’s best to focus
on fewer or one main metric to keep it simple and maintain
momentum. It could be users, sales or profits.
This slide is probably the most important of the slides you
need in your pitch deck because it shows validation. When
it comes to the traction it can be presented in different ways.
Depending on the business traction could be in the form
of registered users, acquisition strategy, user retention, or
revenue growth month over month.
From my perspective, the most powerful way to show traction
is by showing a slide that displays how great you have been
performing month over month in terms of revenue.
If you can show at least over 10% growth each month that is
a good data point to share. Accelerator like YC require 15%
growth week over week but that may be a bit aggressive.
If you are still pre-revenue then you want to explore another
metric that shows progress and that would get prospect
investors excited. Some metrics in this regard could be
customer acquisition growth, retention, etc.

22
11. Business Model
What is your business model? How will you acquire
customers? How will you make money?
Out of the slides you need in your pitch deck, in the business
model you want to explain how you are making money from
your operational structure. Depending on the industry in
which you are operating you may want to go in detail into
what are your margins and how much it costs you to acquire
your customers.
12. Financials
What does your accounting look like? Are you making money?
Are you profitable? Do you still have a sizable amount of cash
in the bank from a recent round?
Hands down this is the #1 most important piece of information
from the slides you need in your pitch deck. Investors spend
over 23% of the review time on this single slide so you want to
clearly describe your numbers.
Normally you want to shoot for at least 3 years of projections.
There are some institutional investors that even ask for 5 years
of projections.
Even though projections are a shot in the dark when you are
dealing with startups, they do provide a good idea of where
the business is heading and potential outcomes. It also gives a
good idea to the investor as to how grounded the management
of the company is.
This slide is more important than entrepreneurs normally
think. When you first connect with an institutional investor
they will ask for your pitch deck. 3 months later they will ask
you at your next meeting where things are at and then they
will make a decision. With this in mind, it is always a good

23
idea to be more on the conservative side and to over-deliver.
The worst thing that can happen is for you to completely miss
the mark and under deliver..
Additionally, you will need to have ready your financials in
Excel format as investors may want to see that after reviewing
your pitch deck. For that reason, you do not need to go
into much detail on the deck. All you need is to provide a
summary.
If you are an early stage startup you may get away without
having a financial slide at all. If you do include one, expect
investors to spend the bulk of their time on this one slide. So,
make sure you’ve checked your math. Make your projections
appealing, but there has to be some rationale for your big
claims.
13. Other Investors
What other investors have participated in previous fundraising
rounds or have pledged to participate or lead this round?
From the slides you need in your pitch deck this is what I call
the social proof slide. Here you want to add existing investors
that could serve as social proof for prospects.
Some of the people reviewing the presentation may already
know one of your existing investors. For that reason, it is good
to have them included as it ultimately increases your chances
of getting funded. You‘d be surprised by how small the world
is. Everyone knows each other. Especially in the venture world.
Moreover, it is key that you don‘t place one specific amount on
the slide. As shown on this slide you will be able to find a range.
For example, if you place just $5M then funds that invest up to
$3M will not look at your deal. The same would happen if you
were to leave just the number $3M. By saying that you are only

24
raising $3M then all the funds that are only investing up north
of $4 or $5M will not look at your opportunity.
For the reason stated above by adding a range you get to
include everyone and as a result, you will increase your
chances of receiving investment as your funnel of prospects is
much wider.
14. The Team
Along with your cover and financials, this is one of your three
most important pitch deck slides. As an early stage startup
your team is the number one thing investors are evaluating. It’s
the make or break for investing in you. Invest in making this
slide great.
Instead of putting the entire team, by including your most
junior people, I would only have on this slide the key people
in the company. This could be the founders and other senior
folks that are running the company with you within the
management team.
Startups move very fast and the junior people tend to switch
working places too fast. Especially millennials. It is not a good
idea to have investors review your presentation and then
three months later have them see people changing in your
organization. Investors could interpret that things are not
working for the business reason why employees are leaving.
Also, do not put the entire bios of the management team. I
would recommend putting a few important bullets on each
member. This could be companies they worked at before your
startup and perhaps some impressive accomplishments (e.g.
NYT Bestselling Author, serial entrepreneur, 3 major exits, etc).
15. Advisors
These are the folks you have brought on to help guide you in

25
the right direction. Make sure that you are stating clearly what
is the expertise they are bringing to the table. This is another
slide that provides social proof from the slides you need in
your pitch deck.
Your advisors will be changing as the company matures. In the
beginning, the type of advisors you want is the celebrity type,
the very successful people that would make you look good, etc.
However, when you are a little bit more mature in the lifecycle
of the company you want people that would be very much
involved with your strategy providing guidance.
Advisors are also a great way to receive introductions to other
investors. They serve as well as social proof to show others that
you have respected and accomplished individuals helping you
out to push things forward. Essentially you are communicating
you are not just a random person with a random idea.
16. Use Of Funds
What are you going to do with any money you receive in
this round? Why is it needed? Or is this round more about
recruiting great stakeholders to get you to the next level?
Out of the slides you need in your pitch deck this will tell
investors how well you have done your homework. You
definitely want to get this slide right. Before having this slide
created, put together an outline of your 18 to 24-month plan so
that you have a clear understanding of how much money you
will need to have in order to execute the strategy.
In the event you are not clear or miss the mark on certain
things where you should be investing company resources, you
will end up giving a really bad signal to prospects. Investors
could have a negative interpretation thinking that you do not
have a good grasp of the space. Also, investors will be left
with the impression that you don‘t know why you are raising
money.

26
Ultimately a company without true north is very dangerous.
What are your next milestones? How will this money help
you achieve them? What time frame are you estimate you will
hit them in? How much of a runway will this money give you
before you raise again or find an exit? Any references you have
to back up your track record of hitting previous milestones will
help make you look great here.
17. Back Cover & Contact Information
From the slides you need in your pitch deck this is the part
where you take the time to thank the investor for reviewing
your presentation. Especially for making it this far through
your deck.
Repeat your contact information so that they can get in touch
if they are interested in funding you, or at least setting up
a meeting. Make your contact info obvious and easy. Use
whatever channel is easiest for them, and which you’ll be on
top of responding to fast.
Other information that would definitely help to beef up this
section is press mentions. Some quotes from articles in which
you were mentioned could be nice to have here. Have such
quotes included with the logo of the media publication in
which you were featured.
Summary
Your entire business idea and future can all ride on the power
of your pitch deck. These are the most important slides to
include, and what to make sure you get on them.
Don’t let this step bog you down, but for how vital success is
here, it’s worth investing in making your slides great or getting
some feedback from a fundraising consultant, before you blow
any pitching opportunities.

27
Chapter 3
How long it takes to create a
pitch deck
How long does it really take to create a pitch deck that will get
your startup funded?
You’ve only got one shot to pitch investors and wow them with
your deck. Is your up to the job? If not, how long is it going to
take to craft an effective one so that you can start pitching?
Timing Is Critical
Timing is critical for startups. That’s even truer when it comes
to product launches and fundraising campaigns.
You need to have a great handle on the time it will take to
create your pitch deck and other fundraising campaign
materials in order to survive and get funded.
You need to know your timeline so that you can begin leading
up to your pitch and pre-marketing any campaigns, and
dripping the hype and PR to prime investors for them. Some
may have to buckle up are prepare for a challening year of
fundraising campaigning, even after they have a great deck in
hand. Others may be under the gun to get money in ASAP and
hit the ground running beofre they run out of time and money
to work on this startup.
So, how long should you plan for it to take to create a pitch
deck? What are some of the hacks to get it done faster? What are
some of the gotchas that could take a lot longer than you expect?

28
How Long It Takes To Make A Pitch Deck
How long can it possibly take to throw together a handful or a
dozen slides?
The quick answer is that is can take as little as a few hours to
well over a month.
A pich deck pro armed with all the relevant data can probably
whip up a powerful deck in less than a day of work. Though
in most cases, from scratch to polish, startup entrepreneurs
should plan weeks to complete a fundable deck they are
willing to bet their business idea on.
2 Hacks For Creating A Pitch Deck Faster
1. Use A Proven Template
Save reinventing the wheel and dsisruption for your product.
Being too creative with your deck is just going to confuse
investors and be a roadblock to successful funding. Don’t take
the scenic route to creating a slide presentation from scratch
either. There is too much else you need to do, and time is of
the essence. Use a proven existing pitch deck template, and
customize it with your data and style.
2. Hire A Pitch Deck Pro
You could spend months just learning about what to put in
your deck, the slides to include, current trends on what is
getting funded and what investors want to see, as well as
formats. You can’t afford that. Bring in someone specifically to
work on your deck. Someone who does this type of work for a
living. They can do it in 100th of the time it will take you. No
matter what they charge by the hour, it will be less than you
will spend of your own time trying to figure it all out.
Steps To Creating A Winning Pitch Deck

29
Recruiting & Hiring Help
Use freelance experts to help complete a winning deck fast.
You’ll need:
●	 Designers
●	 Image/video editors
●	 Researchers
●	 Copywriters
●	 Strategists and funraising experts
This process can take anywhere from 1 day to 3 weeks
depending on how you do it. Hopefully you already have
some good fundraising advisors you can reach out to. Then use
platforms like UpWork to reach out to top talent in this space
and hire fast.
Build Your Target List Of Investors
Look up and create a short list of potential investors that
you will tailor this pitch deck towards. Knowing the type of
investor and the theme of what they are investing in will make
a lot of difference in pitching well.
If you are behind the game on this, you may need 1-2 weeks to
really identify, filter and create a tight list.
Like most of the other tasks on this list, it’s not that you’ll be
spending 80-100 hours a week on this one step, but you have
so much else to do. If you get in a few hours today, and then
finish next week, you are already 2 weeks in. Especially if
you are working with assistants who may be in different time
zones, and you are lagging a day between messages each way.
Research
Allow up to another 2 weeks for some serious research and
compiling all the data you need to fill in your pitch deck.

30
This includes:
●	 Market size
●	 Market trends and direction
●	 Verifying the problem
●	 Marketing strategies
●	 Costs and profit margins
Images & Editing
Between creating a logo, product screenshots, modeling
prototypes, or images of use cases for your product and editin
team headshots allow another 2-4 weeks.
Developing The Copy
The words you use in your pitch deck will make all the
difference. Each word can add or lose another million dollars
in your raise.
A great copywriter who knows how to tell the right story,
and can boil it down to one liners and bullet points can be an
invaluable asset.
They might be able to craft all the text you need in just one
day, but the best writers will already be booked up for 2-4
weeks in advance.
Reviewing & Tweaking Your Pitch Deck
Once you have it altogether test the feedback from advisors
and others you trust. Allow another 1-2 weeks to compile this
feedback and make adjustments before it is polished and ready
to use live.

31
Chapter 4
Scenarios where a pitch deck is
important
In what situations is a pitch deck a valuable asset?
There are many situations in which you will find a pitch deck
a great asset. Fundraising may be the most obvious. Though if
you wait until you and your startup is ready to raise a round
you may be seriously selling yourself and company short.
Check out these scenarios in which being equipped with a
pitch deck can be extremely helpful and yield great returns.
Honing Your Startup Business Idea
One of the best uses of a pitch deck is for yourself and in the
initial stages of fleshing out and polishing your vision and
business idea. Especially when you are wondering what is a
business model.
It’s far more effective than a napkin. It’s far faster and more
efficient than trying to build out a voluminous business plan,
only to end up making endless changes and creating a more
usable pitch deck in the end anyway.
Grab a proven pitch deck template and take some time out to
fill it out.
This will help you really think through your idea upfront,
think about how you’ll explain it to others, find a viable
business model, and identify what you need to focus your
energy on.

32
This is also the ideal time to show your pitch deck to others
and get some initial feedback and advice, so that you can make
adjustments to your pitch and model before rushing in or
blasting it out to investors.
Enrolling Advisors
Your pitch deck is an excellent tool for connecting with
advisors early on. No matter how experienced you are and
what you’ve accomplished before, there is always benefit in
bringing in targeted advisors for a startup.
Look for those with relevant experience, who can fill in some of
the expertise gaps you or your founding team may be missing,
and who know the investors you will be targeting for this
venture and any upcoming fundraising rounds.
Making these moves early also enables you to then add these
advisors to your pitch deck and make it even more powerful
for whatever you use it for next.
Recruiting Cofounders
Solo entrepreneurs can create fantastic businesses. Yet, it is no
secret that investors definitely prefer funding multi-founder
startups. You don’t want too many. That can make things a
lot harder in other ways. However, two or three cofounders
together can make the journey much easier and more bearable
and enjoyable. In addition to improving your odds of getting
funded, it dramatically increases the odds you’ll keep going
when things are tough. It can also take the financial pressure
off if you can bring in cofounders who will contribute capital,
or who will at least be willing to temporarily forego a paycheck
when needed and take stock options. Their ownership
mindset can also make them some of your best workers and
ambassadors. Far more so than any salary or perks can buy.
You’ll get a lot farther with attracting and convincing
cofounders if you have a clean, organized and well thought

33
through initial pitch deck.
Recruiting Team Members
You can also use your pitch deck to recruit early and key team
members. It is going to be the company with the best team who
wins. In fact, a strong team alone can add immense tangible
value to your business and justify a sizable acquisition.
Serious talent is going to be cautious about who they join.
Especially with so many other options on the table. They want
to know you are serious, organized and have a plan that is
going to work. A nice clean pitch deck is the easiest and fastest
way to demonstrate this and why they should jump on board.
Securing Early Customers
One of the most underutilized, but most powerful and valuable
uses of a pitch deck is to secure early customers.
You can approach this in several ways. You can do it
subconsciously and subtly by approaching key decision
makers for their advice and feedback. Seed the idea of
becoming an early adopter. You can survey them and ask for
their input on honing your solution for their needs.
When this leads to pre-orders and advance contracts you are
ensuring you have cash coming in and there is at least some
demand. Just ensure you are bringing in actual money, not just
getting vague nods to doing business with you in the future.
There is a huge difference.
Some of those who have done this successfully have even
found these first customers become inbound investors who
fund the development and building of the product and hiring
the team needed. Some of these partners may even provide
some of the other resources you need to really get live and in
the game.

34
In Place Of A Business Plan
Even though many hot startups seem to have proven they can
get away without a traditional plan, there can still be a variety
of scenarios in which a business plan is asked for.
Some of the most common can include:
●	 Applying for business loans
●	 Getting commercial real estate loans
●	 Securing leases for space and equipment
●	 Applying for various licenses
It’s still smart to have a business plan. At least a very strong
executive summary, and a one page plan. However, far too
many would be entrepreneurs end up wasting an enormous
amount of time and energy on business plans they never really
use. It often costs them first mover advantage, credibility,
millions in potential capital and sometimes the entire
opportunity.
Startup Fundraising
Whether you are raising a friends and family pre-seed round
or a Series C, you don’t want to be caught without a strong
pitch deck. It will make all the difference in getting the capital
and investment partners your venture needs, even if you
already have personal relationships and a strong network.
The Exit
When it comes to really planning and shopping for an exit
you’ll want a pitch book and information memorandum.
However, you can certainly begin with your updated pitch
deck. It’s similar, and the chances are high that you may
be running two potential processes at once. Or you may
ultimately find your exit and acquirer while running a
fundraising process.

35
Chapter 5
What is the best font for a
pitch deck?
So much rides on the power and effectiveness of your pitch
deck as a startup that even factors like which font you use can
make or break you.
Factors like font may not only directly determine whether
your pitch deck is viewed, but how much investors think your
startup is worth, how much capital they are willing to bet on
you and on what terms, but if they are even able to follow
through and send you the funds you really want and need.
If there are four main elements of your deck (content, delivery,
images, and text), then the font may carry 25% of the value of
your pitch deck. If you are pushing for an aggressive Series A
round, your font choice could be worth $25M. You don’t want
to get bogged down in tiny details instead of just executing
and getting things done, but with so much on the line, even the
entire future of your venture, it is worth getting this right.
What is the best font for your startup’s pitch deck? The font
affects how investors view your startup and worth, and the
capital they’ll invest.
What Is A Font?
A font is a style of text.
There are probably far more styles of font that you knew
existed. More are being created over time.

36
PC World reports that there are almost 70 font choices in
the home and student version of Microsoft Word. While the
professional version offers 216.
Google Docs offers even more. According to Wikipedia, Google
offers 1023 font choices.
Some of the most common fonts include:
●	 Arial
●	 Times New Roman
●	 Helvetica
●	 Verdana
Some have definitely stood the test of time and have been
around for almost 100 years. Others are more modern and
have become popular online. So, what is the best font for your
startup’s pitch deck?
Fonts: Guiding Principles & Best Practices
The best way to think about fonts for your pitch deck is
with the same guiding principles governing your whole
presentation.
That is to keep it clean and simple.
This is the first rule and question to ask yourself and your team
when you are considering any font for your deck. It is clean
and simple?
These are some of the other considerations and questions to
ask when evaluating fonts when fundraising.
Is It Easy To Understand?
Your font must pass this test. If it is not easy to read potential
investors and customers are going to have a hard time making

37
sense of it, or finding you. Some fonts may look smart as
a logo, but the letters are too hard to make out for anyone
outside of your company who doesn’t already know what it is
supposed to say.
This is a complete fail. You may have everything else perfect,
but if they can’t email you or find you online to send you a
check or wire you money, that is a pretty expensive blunder.
Of course, if investors are struggling so will customers, and
that’s already a nail in the coffin on your business. Keep that in
mind when figuring out what is the best font for your startup’s
pitch deck?
Is It Commonly Used By Your Team Members?
While there are over 1,000 fonts you can pick from or
download and add to your favorite slide creation software, few
may be regularly used by your team members.
Do they have the font? Do they like working with it? Do they
even have access to it if they are working remotely in another
country?
Using a more common font will help streamline everything,
including any iterations and updates to your deck as you go.
Branding
Does the font match your brand? What does your chosen font
say about your brand?
Does it match your logo, stated customer base, and the type of
investor who would be a part of a mission like the one you are
on?
It should feel elegant or sophisticated if you are in the luxury
market. It should be clean and serious if you are in enterprise

38
technology, and so on.
Put yourself in the investors’ shoes. What do they see? What
is it most like for them? Does it look like a highly successful
startup’s font? One that they are used to and want to replicate
the success of?
What To Avoid When Selecting A Font For Your Pitch Deck
Avoid ‘fantasy’ style fonts. They can cheapen your brand, look
unprofessional and are harder to read.
The same applies to cursive, script and italic style fonts and
serif style fonts.
Avoid fad and trendy fonts. Hopefully you are creating a
business that can last at least 10 years. Not one that is going to
go bust when Google changes is algorithms again next month.
Other Factors To Consider When Designing Your Pitch Deck
How Many Fonts Should You Use?
Use no more than 1-3 fonts in your pitch deck. You can
highlight different lines of text with different font sizes, colors
and shading, or bold text formatting instead. Yes, figuring out
what is the best font for your startup’s pitch deck is a process
that you want to work out carefully.
Font Size
Guy Kawasaki has recommended that all text should be at
least 30 point font size in a pitch deck. Your headers and sub
headers should be even larger.
Colors
Make sure your text color choices are strategic as well. Do they

39
match your brand, and the type of startup that investors will
expect to perform well, and have the ability to deliver 100x
returns?
The Amount of Text Used In Your Deck
Only use the bare minimum amount of text absolutely vital to
getting the main points across and answering the most basic
questions investors will have.

40
Chapter 6
Do’s and don’ts when creating
pitch deck
What are the do’s and don’ts of creating a pitch deck for your
startup?
What should and shouldn’t you do when creating a pitch deck
to ensure it is effective and maximizes your odds of getting the
funding you need?
The Power Of Pitch Decks
Pitch decks are an incredibly important piece of the puzzle for
startups. Yours can make all the difference in getting off the
ground, maintaining the funds you need to keep surviving and
thriving, and whether you can really unleash the potential this
business idea has, or not.
You really only get one shot at making a first impression with
your pitch deck. If you blow it, you have probably blown
your chance of funding from that investor. If you nail it, that
successful connection can lead to many more pitches and
opportunities.
Even beyond the present fundraising round, your pitch deck
can be very influential when it comes to recruiting the best
advisors, partners, and key team players.
With so much on the line, it is worth investing the time and
energy to get it right. Let’s get started exploring the do’s and
don’ts of creating a pitch deck for your startup.

41
The Do’s Of Creating A Winning Pitch Deck
There are volumes of amateur and outdated advice on pitch
decks out there today. It is a hot topic many people want to
cash in on. Unfortunately, that can make knowing what to do
really confusing too.
Here are some of the most important things you do want to do
when it comes to creating your own deck.
Keep It Super Clean & Simple
Simplicity is your friend and white space is your ally.
If in doubt, leave it out. It is better to have more empty space so
that viewers can absorb the most important points, and don’t
gloss over or get bored before the call to action.
Use images and graphics where it makes sense. As they say, a
picture is worth a thousand words.
For more information about how media works, check out this
video that explains the key mistakes to avoid when creating
your pitch deck.
Focus On Your Four Most Important Slides
There is a lot more that goes into crafting a powerful pitch deck
than most realize. In fact, it can sometimes seem a lot harder
to create a very simple looking deck than to just brain dump
everything you’ve got in slide form. Between research and
design each slide can be more demanding than you anticipate.
So, make sure you put the most energy and thought into the
four slides that are most pivotal and important for investors.
These are:
●	 Cover slide: it’s all about first impressions, and getting

42
them to keep swiping
●	 Problem slide: demonstrate clarity on the problem, and
how big it is
●	 Financial slide: this is where investors will spend most
of their time
●	 Team slide: the team is even more important than your
startup idea
Show Your Traction
Millions of people can talk a good game when it comes to
selling and presenting. Very, very few can really execute. What
can you prove that you can actually do?
Show the progress you’ve been making, the milestones you’ve
achieved and the growth you’ve maintained.
Show What You’ll Use The Money For
If they are interested in your startup, what will you use
their funds for? Put yourself in the investor’s shoes. What
is a worthy investment of their capital that will really yield
returns? Do you still need to finance building a prototype? Do
you need to hire experts to build this? Or is it scaling a proven
marketing and business model? Make sure your ask lines up
with these uses.
Get Feedback Before Sharing
Get third party feedback from qualified advisors before you hit
send and bet everything on this deck.
Let’s move on to the don’ts section of the critical do’s and
don’ts of creating a pitch deck for your startup.
The Don’ts Of Creating A Pitch Deck
Knowing what to do is only half of the battle. Knowing what

43
not to do is equally, if not even more important.
These are some of the critical don’ts when it comes to your
pitch deck.
Don’t Go Too Long
Shorter is better when it comes to slide count in a pitch deck.
You should definitely be under 20 slides. Under 12 is even
better. You might even be able to get under 10. Going too long
is a huge red flag, and your slide count alone can kill your
funding chances, even before they look at a single page.
Don’t Provide Too Much Detail
This is not the place to take a deep dive into the details of your
product, technology and all the features of your solution. They
don’t need to know how it all works, and typically don’t want
to. It will only take away from the important points and show
you haven’t even bothered to Google what makes a good pitch
deck.
Don’t Put In Anything That Requires A NDA
If you feel that you have real proprietary secrets you
don’t want shared, just say that, and leave out the details.
Demanding a NDA from anyone you want to see your deck
or who can benefit from seeing it in their work is going to
dramatically shrink the pool of those who will be interested,
and that usually means excluding the best talent and investors
right away.
Don’t Try To Reinvent The Wheel
This is not the place to reinvent, show off your innovation,
disrupt and break things. That’s what your business does.
Don’t try to reinvent the pitch deck. You’ll just confuse
investors. Serve it up in the format they expect. Besides, it is far

44
more effective and efficient to use a proven pitch deck template
anyway.
Don’t Forget Your Contact Info
How tragic would it be if you wow an investor with your deck
and they want to fund you, but you didn’t make your contact
information obvious enough so they can quickly take action?
Keep these essential do’s and don’ts of creating a pitch deck for
your startup in mind and you’re sure to get the funding you
need.

45
Chapter 7
Deadly signs of a bad pitch
deck
Is your pitch deck and fundraising campaign doomed to fail?
Fundraising can be challenging at the best of times. It’s
going to be a lot harder if your pitch deck isn’t up to the job.
Unfortunately there are a lot of bad pitch decks that get floated
out there every day. How do you know if yours has a chance?
If it is displaying any of these critical red flags you need to
go back to the drawing board before you try sharing and
presenting it.
Asking For A NDA First
If you are asking potential investors, advisors, and hires to sign
NDAs before they even see your deck you aren’t going to get
far. At least not with anyone serious and who is good. NDAs
at this stage are a big red flag that you are a complete novice,
don’t have the right priorities, and your startup probably isn’t
going anywhere. You’ll immediately be dismissed by those
you really need to see it and get input from. If there is any real
trade secret and secret recipe involved, then just leave those
sensitive details out of the deck.
It’s Ugly
Simple and basic is one thing. That might just say you are a
little lazy or didn’t feel it was worth investing in a good pitch
deck and presentation. You might get away with it. Then there
is outright ugly. If your deck is an eyesore, and others are

46
gently trying to tell you that you could improve on it, take a
step back and put some time and money into the design.
You might be bootstrapping and running lean, but it is worth
every penny and minute. Consider how much your pitch deck
is worth if you successfully raise this round and your business
takes off. If you really believe in your startup idea, then you
have to show it, and that you respect the time and attention of
prospective investors.
Your Cover Slide Lacks Key Info
First impressions count. Experienced investors are looking
for an interesting cover slide that includes the core basics, like
your company name and contact information.
There Are Too Many Slides
Having too many slides is another deadly sign that you aren’t
going to get funded. There is enough information out there
telling you that shorter and sweeter is better when it comes to
slide count in a pitch deck that there is really no good excuse
for a lengthy deck.
If you’ve got more than 16 or 20 slides it is an instant sign
that you haven’t bothered to do the most basic homework,
can’t listen and take advice, and are incapable of focusing
and keeping it simple. If you can’t boil it down by a couple
of slides, then investors can’t expect you’ll be able to make
anything more complicated work or will make the effort. 8-12
slides is plenty.
It Looks Too Complicated & Detailed
Simple, clean and clear is the key to a successful pitch deck
and getting funded. If they start swiping slides and they are
cluttered, packed with text, and busy, it is an immediate turn
off. Investors will immediately know that you really don’t

47
understand how startups, fundraising and they work. If you
can’t get this simple thing right, they know it is probably not
worth looking any further or reading all that tiny messy text or
trying to make sense of your schematics.
Even if they do give you a chance, they are highly likely to
quickly gloss over and either get bored, run out of time before
reviewing the next deck in their inbox, or miss the good stuff.
Not Being Crystal Clear & Simple About The Problem
For startups to be successful in business and efficient enough
to make it they have to be solving a strong problem, and they
must have an incredible level of clarity about the problem they
are solving.
It’s true that your product or solution and company may be
able to simultaneously solve many problems, bring many
improvements to efficiency and the features can have many
side benefits. The bottom line is that 99% of that is irrelevant
in this context. You need to prove you are laser focused on
solving one specific problem and doing it incredibly well.
Overstating Big Claims
Be optimistic, sell it, and show the big upside potential by all
means. Investors want to be inspired and buy into big visions
too. Just don’t get carried away. Be sure your claims and stats
are based on real facts, and that you can back them up with
credible references.
Missing Key Data
Before you even choose a pitch deck template or hit a single
key to fill it in, you should know what investors are looking
for and expect in a deck. You should know the questions they
are asking and the most important data points for them to be
able to make a decision. Those things should be your guide to

48
research and formulating the deck in the first place, nothing
else.
Not Acknowledging The Competition
Knowing the right things to do to build a great product and
business of your own is only half of the game here. Maybe
less. At least half of it is knowing and respecting the risks
and threats and competition. Like a legendary boxing match,
it often isn’t the athlete that jumps in the ring and throws
the most blows the fastest that wins the belt. It is the one
that can take all that is thrown at them the longest, until the
competition burns out and the perfect shot lines up.
You do have competition. Show it. There are threats. Show that
you know them in your SWOT analysis.
No USP
If you have no clear USP, you have no clear business. You need
to pause the deck until you’ve really got something with a
unique value proposition, or can find someone to help draw
yours out and tell the right story around it.

49
Chapter 8
Why the cover slide is so
important in pitch decks
Why is the cover slide of your pitch deck so important?
If you see the importance, and impact it can have for good or
bad, what should be on it, and how do you make the most of
it?
The Science Of First Impressions
What you do up to getting your cover slide in front of potential
investors for your startup is certainly vital too. You’ve got to
make a good enough impression and be able to create enough
urgency and interest to get them to even open up or click
the link to your startup’s pitch deck. That includes your first
outreach, your subject line, you email or DM body, and even
your social profile and email address.
Most investors are going to be looking at many, many decks
before they even short list any of those. Even those that get a
meeting will mostly hear “no.” We are talking about hundreds
of noes for each yes and check they write. For active investors
that is a whole lot of pitch decks they need to look at. In
order for them to be efficient with their time, and get down to
making the deals they want to, which are going to help their
own metrics and profits, they have to be very selective with
their time. Even decks they like may just get 2-3 minutes of
their time. That means they are likely to toss and delete a lot of
pitches just based on the cover slide. Make sure yours isn’t one
of them.

50
According to the Institute for Organization Management of the
US Chamber of Commerce, 55% of a first impression is visual.
Next most important is the way and tone that something is
said, at 38%. So, even when pitching in person, the visuals and
tone is much more important than what you are saying.
According to Forbes contributor Serenity Gibbons and The
Association For Psychological Science, first impressions are
formed far faster than you think. Just a 10th of a second to
determine traits like trustworthiness, and just 50 milliseconds
to form an opinion based on a website. That may not even be
long enough to fully read a tagline or the rest of the content on
your cover slide.
So, when it comes to cover slides it is wise to think about
the details, and psychology, and to really keep it clean and
focused, so that investors pick up on the impression you really
want to convey.
What Should Be On Your Pitch Deck Cover Slide?
Company Name
What does your company name say about this opportunity?
What is the first impression it will give?
Tagline
This is your opportunity to sum up your business in a single
sentence. This may be the best lever you have to get them to
open and start swiping through the rest of your deck, or drop
it in the trash folder.
Logo
The font, colors and imagery all instantly convey volumes
about your startup. It is worth thinking it through from the
investors’ perspective. What is going to give them the first

51
impression that you are going to become their next hit startup,
based upon what they’ve seen before in the market and their
own portfolios?
Contact Information
Your name, business address, phone number, email address
and Linkedin handle also say a lot. How can you optimism
these factors for a superior first impression?
The Cover Slide & Capability
The uncomfortable truth is that ideas are cheap. They are
infinite. The difference in a startup that can make it and
is fundable, is that they have a strong, capable team. In
milliseconds your cover slide demonstrates an enormous
amount about your capability. Here are just some of those
ways.
Nailing The Marketing Pitch
Make no mistake that your fundraising pitch is one of the
greatest marketing tests of your business. It also directly shows
how capable you are at marketing your business, brand, and
product to consumers and partners. Presentation is important.
So, is proving through this that you also have a great handle on
the market, your target customers and the marketing you will
do for acquiring customers. This shows up in your research,
marketing plan, traction, marketing ROI and unit economics,
as well as your fundraising ask and what you say you will do
with the money.
If you haven’t hired a CMO or marketing and sales talent yet,
then this is a good time to at least bring in someone freelance
to nail it for your pitch deck and presentation.

52
Coachability
While there is certainly a lot of poor and misinformation out
there online, it really doesn’t require a big investment to find
out what really works when it comes to pitch decks and to find
a proven template.
Showing up with a strong cover slide that checks the boxes
shows that you are coachable, are able to seek great advice and
listen. That is one of the most essential traits of entrepreneurs
that have what it takes to make it, and investors want to work
with.
Think about it. If you are too stubborn to do this for creating
your pitch deck and presenting to them, how are they
supposed to believe you’ll show up in the right way when it
comes to everything else.
The Cover Vs. Closing Slide
The closing slide is your chance to leave a strong impression.
Use it to thank them and close with those strong elements from
your cover so that they can follow through, take action and
contact you.

53
Chapter 9
How to include an executive
summary in a pitch deck
How to include an executive summary in a pitch deck?
Executive summaries have long been a critical part of starting
a business and securing funding. How do they play a role in
today’s modern fundraising efforts? Should you even have an
executive summary slide in your pitch deck? If so, what should
you include on it? What other alternative ways are there to
deliver this information?
What Is An Executive Summary?
As the name suggests, an executive summary sums up
your business in a much shorter brief than other long form
documents.
It encapsulates your ideas and business in a very fast and easy
to digest format. It is everything in a nutshell, without any of
the fluff.
An executive summary is critical for presenting to those who
are busy and pressed on time. Even more important for those
who are used to this more traditional way of pitching and
funding businesses.
Often, this one document or slide will make or break
everything. It will either get you deleted and banished, or it
will make up investors minds to fund you, and just leave the
details of how to structure that to be worked out.

54
They have traditionally been the document commercial
lenders and banks have looked for. As well as more traditional
investors. It is what they are used to, get and like. So, even if
you are using a very modern pitch deck, don’t overlook the
importance and value of including an executive summary in
this process.
Just don’t confuse short or brief with being easy. Most startup
founders find it far harder to create something short than to
brain dump volumes of information and fluff into lengthy
decks and business plans with many pages. It can be harder to
be effective and concise.
Which is perhaps why most founders fail at fundraising. It’s
also why you would want to carefully understand how to
include an executive summary in a pitch deck?
How To Send Your Executive Summary When Pitching
Investors
Many modern pitch decks don’t include an executive summary
slide. Many recommendations and slide templates don’t leave
room for one. Especially not if you are doing a slick, short and
stylish 10 or even 12 slide pitch deck.
It can already be a great struggle to condense everything to
a short deck that including an executive summary slide may
make that even far harder. Or you may feel that you really
can’t present it well and attractively with everything boiled
down to one slide.
With this in mind, and to still deliver on a traditional text style
executive summary you may want to separate this information
from your actual slide deck. You can include a traditional
summary as a 1 to 3 page Microsoft Word document as an
attachment in the email you send your deck in.
Those who want to read it can. Or you can provide a link to

55
it in a Google Drive folder that includes other accompanying
documents, like your one page business plan, investor updates,
and supporting data. Work out the best way to do this when
figuring out how to include an executive summary in a pitch
deck?
Creating An Executive Summary Slide For Your Pitch Deck
When you are raising Series A and later rounds and have
much more information to share, and investor expectations of
data are higher, then your pitch deck may be a little longer. It
may be 16 to 20 pages to cram it all in. This can still be pretty
lengthy and time consuming to get through for busy investors.
When they are reviewing 100 or 200 decks before funding a
single venture, they are super tight on time and are quick to
dismiss any pitches that are slow and too drawn out, boring or
uncatchy.
You may avoid getting unfairly swiped to the trash pile by
leading with an executive summary slide that shows all of the
key data and highlights. If you nail this, they will dig in with
the intent of wanting to learn more about you and wanting to
fund you. So, how do you do it?
You can accomplish this on one slide using eight icons and
up to three bullets per icon. These will represent the most
important slides and factors to investors and get their attention
by showing you check the boxes they are looking for in an
investment. It tells them the rest is worth reading.
Use these sections on your summary slide.
Context
●	 The problem you are solving
●	 The solution you are providing
●	 The product you are creating or selling

56
Mission & Goals
●	 What’s the big vision and mission
●	 Where are you at
●	 What is the goal
Market Size
●	 What is the space you are tackling
●	 How big is the market
●	 How much is it growing
Competitive Analysis
●	 Who are your main competitors
●	 What is your competitive advantage
●	 How much better are you
Marketing Plan
●	 What is the go to market plan
●	 What are your customer acquisition costs
●	 How is it working so far
Financial Plan
●	 What are your unit economics
●	 What are your sales forecasts
●	 What are your profit forecasts
Timeline
●	 When did you start
●	 What have you achieved so far
●	 What’s the next milestone
The Ask
●	 How much are you raising

57
●	 What terms are you offering
●	 What will you use it for
Summary
To round off how to include an executive summary in a pitch
deck, this section plays a very important role in funding a
business. Nailing this can make all the difference in whether
the rest of your deck is even seen or not. You may use a
traditional style summary in conjunction with a modern pitch
deck, or work it into your pitch deck to capture attention and
interest.
How to include an executive summary in a pitch deck?
Learn how to craft a robust summary for starting a business,
securing funding, and convincing investors

58
Chapter 10
How to address the problem in
a pitch deck
What is the best way to show the problem your startup is
taking on in your pitch deck?
Your startup is all about solving this problem. Being able to
convey it to others well may make all the difference in your
ability to get funded or not. So, how should you address
presenting the problem when fundraising? How do you do it
incredibly well, and perhaps not only pick up some additional
capital, but new ambassadors and helpers with expertise at the
same time?
How Important Is The Problem?
Most entrepreneurs don’t get this. They are blind to it. The
problem is the most important part of not only your pitch, but
your business as well.
If you get the problem right, everything else will fall inline.
You’ll:
●	 Find the right advisors
●	 Hire the right people
●	 Secure the best investors
●	 Find the right solution
●	 Design the right products
●	 Roll out the best marketing
●	 Stick with it when things feel rough

59
●	 See your business thrive and grow
●	 Achieve an exit that goes on to live out the mission
With the right handle on a strong problem you’ll start a
business that has longevity, and can give birth to many great
solutions and products. You’ll see results sooner, grow faster
and get a lot more out of the funds you do have. In turn that
will lead to more funding, and on better terms.
This is why the problem is far more important for investors
than your initially proposed solution. So, don’t be afraid to
take a moment to double down and dive into the problem
and hone it, and even spend 50% of your time in your pitch
focusing on the problem.
After all, if you don’t have the problem right, then the solution
is definitely wrong.
Where To Start Addressing The Problem In A Pitch Deck
Addressing the problem doesn’t have to wait for your problem
slide. It shouldn’t.
Demonstrate clarity and focus right from the cover slide of
your pitch deck with a strong tagline or slogan.
This shows them you know what you are doing right upfront,
and should earn you some extra credibility, even before they
start swiping through your slides. First impressions count for a
lot. Don’t blow yours.
The Most Important Slide In Your Pitch Deck
If the problem is the most important part of your startup and
pitch, then the problem slide is the most important one in your
deck.
That doesn’t mean you make it complicated or squeeze five

60
times as much text onto this slide. In fact the opposite may be
true. Keep it clean, simple and focused.
Forget all of the side problems your initial solution might help
solve, or the other benefits and features. Hone in on just one
main problem.
The Story
Since your slide space is so limited, your verbal pitch and
presentation is where you get to talk around your slides and
bullet points and really drive it home.
Begin with your story of how you encountered this problem.
Images are great for conveying emotion too. Tell it in a
personal story. One that your investor audience can relate to.
Describe how you then intentionally invested time and energy
in exploring and verifying this problem. How you made sure it
was a real problem that others were struggling with too.
Talk about how you measured it, and gauged the sense of
urgency among potential customers. As well as tested the
demand for and the value of a solution to this problem.
This might sound like a lot of work, but if you don’t do all of
this, you can’t be sure about the problem. You could waste
years and millions of dollars going in the wrong direction. If
you can’t be bothered to make this investment, why would
investors bother to give you the time and capital they have
worked so hard for?
Market Slide
This is where you show how big this problem is, and how
much it is growing?
Use big data points. Be specific about the segment of the

61
market which you really plan to appeal to and can serve.
The Solution Slide
Of course, no one wants to be brought a problem without a
solution for it. So, what is your intended or existing solution
for this problem?
Keep it as simple as you kept your initial problem slide.
All of the details can be shared later. You can also follow up
with a product and business model slide which lay it out
further.
Competitive Analysis & Advantage
Your competition analysis is also a critical part of addressing
the problem in your pitch deck,and gaining backing for your
solution.
What other competition is out there? If there isn’t much, why
is that? Can that be an advantage? Who may want to create a
solution for this space? How may that lead to partnerships,
distribution channels, or even a grand exit?
What are existing competitors doing well or poorly? What
is the void that they are leaving on the table? How are you
going to do better in comparison? What is your competitive
advantage?
The Team Slide
What is this best in class team that you have assembled to
champion this problem? How are they uniquely experienced
and skilled to do it? How committed and resilient are these
people, to keep going in the face of adversity, even if this first
solution attempt and product isn’t perfect or has to pivot?

62
Chapter 11
How to position the solution
in a pitch deck
How to position the solution in a pitch deck for startup
fundraising?
Every slide matters in your pitch deck. This is even truer as
decks get shorter and more concise. Each slide can be worth
millions of dollars. So, how do you get the solution right when
pitching and presenting to potential investors in your startup?
It’s All About The Solution
Your startup and pitch deck is really all about your solution,
right?
While there are many other things that investors will look
at, evaluate you on and want to know. This business and
fundraising campaign is really all about bringing your solution
to life and scaling it. It’s your product that you want to put out
into the world.
The truth is (and experienced investors know this) that your
product is probably going to change over time. It will probably
change a lot. You have a lot of iterating to do to secure product
market fit and make it scalable.
You may have to completely pivot in response to the market.
Your solution will have to evolve significantly over time as
things change, if your business is going to last for the long
term too.

63
Plus, you’ll probably be adding on more new solutions and
features or upgrades and stand alone products as well.
Still, if your solution doesn’t seem solid and attractive, then
you aren’t going to get far with fundraising or customers.
Much of it relies on positioning your solution well. So, how do
you do it? And, how to position the solution in a pitch deck for
startup fundraising?
Positioning Starts With Your Cover Slide
Your company name says what you do. That first impression
will say a lot about your brand and value of your solution.
The logo and design will tell them whether this is trying to
be a luxury solution, discount solution or the hip and trendy
option, and so on.
The Problem Slide
The right solution has to match the problem. This slide is
used to establish the what and the need, as well as the pain
level, urgency, eagerness and ability to take action to get their
hands on a solution. It is your one chance, in just a few words
to demonstrate your clarity on the problem and that you’ve
verified it.
It is vital that you just pick one problem.
Your solution may have many positive side effects. After your
MVP, your solution may solve several things at once, with
additional benefits and cool features. Just, recognize that these
are points to make another day, in another setting.
What is the one simple problem that you are going to solve?

64
Market Size
Your market size slide is used to show how big and
widespread this problem is. How many people are going to
want this solution that you are creating and you are asking
these investors to bet on funding? How much will this pool of
customers grow over the next 1-10 years, and beyond?
Competition Slides
Between your competition slide, SWOT analysis, and
competitive advantage slides, how many others are trying to
solve this same problem? Show who they are, which can help
verify the problem and demonstrate the commercial potential
and risks and opportunities.
How are these others doing it? What are they doing well or
not? Which may subconsciously hint at potential future exit
plans.
What are your competitive advantages over them? What is
unique about your solution in comparison? Most importantly,
how to position the solution in a pitch deck for startup
fundraising?
What Is Your Solution?
On your solution slide, very simply layout what is your
solution to this problem exactly, in just a few words. What is
this product that specifically solves this one problem and pain
point?
When presenting your pitch deck online or in person, you can
tell a story around this. One that personally resonates with
your audience and that they can relate to. Also include images
of how people will use it.
How Are You Positioning It For Sale?

65
How are you pitching this solution to potential customers?
Note that this may change overtime with the world, economy
and marketplace.
Does it offer business cost savings they need to survive? Does
it offer gains and better ROI so they can grow? Is it a must have
or luxury that will appeal to their ego? What does the pricing
say about the positioning?
Go Easy On The Features
Your pitch deck and presentation is just as much a test of your
ability to focus and keep it simple as it is about anything else.
If you lose them with too many features and bullet points, they
are going to be seriously worried about your ability to run a
company, go to market, and get this done.
Remember, one problem, one solution. Features are frills, and
this is a no frills zone. Remember that when figuring wow to
position the solution in a pitch deck for startup fundraising?
Business Model
How will you sell your solution? The method of marketing and
selling has a big impact on positioning. Is it congruent with
your stated positioning?
You can imagine the creator of the Birkin bag would cringe
and freak out and see the end of the world coming if their bags
were being resold on Craigslist.
What does it cost to make and sell this solution? What is the
profit and potential return for investors? Do the unit economics
make sense?
The Team
Does the team slide in your pitch deck show that you really

66
have what it takes to develop and sell this solution? Do they
impress with the confidence they can make the best solution of
this type in the industry?
You may find interesting as well our free library of business
templates. There you will find every single template you will
need when building and scaling your business completely for
free.
How to position the solution in a pitch deck for startup
fundraising? Every slide can be worth millions of dollars so
pitch and present it for the most impact.

67
Chapter 12
How to show the target
customers in a pitch deck
How to show your target customers in a pitch deck when
fundraising for your startup?
Demonstrating your handle on your target customers and who
they are plays a big role in fundraising. As well of course as
being critical to your whole business and its longevity.
There’s a lot more to showing your target customers in your
deck than most realize. So, how do you do it? Where does your
target market show up in addition to the target customer slide?
How to show your target customers in a pitch deck when
fundraising for your startup is critical for the business and
prove longevity to investors and acquirers.
The Importance Of Knowing & Showing Your Target
Customers
The #1 Factor For Success
Experienced investors and entrepreneurs have gained much
more appreciation for the role of the problem in startups. You
can’t have a good solution or strong business, without getting
the problem right.
However, it is only logical that you can’t get the problem
right, if you don’t really know and have a handle on who your
customers really are.

68
This is where it all stems from. It is the foundation. You either
have a strong one or a flawed one.
Founders need to be focused on this, and know that investors
certainly will be.
Exit Potential
Investors will certainly be thinking about how this is going
to lead to an exit and deliver returns for them. Who your
customers are may indicate who could be good future
acquirers, and how large they are. For example; are they a
good match for Google, Salesforce or Facebook?
This can be especially important for strategic investors who
may see a path to partnerships and mergers one day.
The Team
Demonstrating you are the right team to take on this problem
is hugely important. If you are the best team, then investors
will be confident you will figure everything else out, even
if that means a big pivot. If you aren’t the best team, then
someone else will come in and dominate this space at some
point.
Showing your clarity on the target customers in a pitch deck
says a lot about the strength and capability of your team.
Use Of Funds
Without complete clarity on your target customers you simply
cannot use any funds you raise well. Fundraising may help
cover up for some of these blunders, but only if investors are
willing to gamble on you still trying to figure out this core part
of the idea and thesis.
Without intimately knowing and understanding your target

69
customers you cannot market accurately. You can’t build the
right branding or solution either. That can mean millions of
dollars and years of waste.
Get the target market right, and everything else will take care
of itself in logical order.
Defining Your Target Customers
The more deeply you can know your target customers the
better. The better you’ll do at communicating with them,
reaching them, marketing and focusing on the right product
features and user experience.
This is embodied in your ideal customer profiles and avatars.
For internal purposes, the more detailed you are the better.
This may include:
●	 Job titles
●	 Incomes
●	 Education
●	 Net worth
●	 Pains and aspirations
●	 Brand affiliations
●	 Which communications mediums they use
●	 What time of day or month they take certain actions
●	 Favorite colors, fonts, and devices, etc.
Of course, this is a lot of detail. Perhaps pages long for your
marketing teams.
When starting out, you probably need to be hyper micro
focused on the best customers. It is the best way to make the
most of your time and budget and get fast results.
However, when it comes to building a true hypergrowth
startup with huge potential you may eventually need to zoom

70
out as well. Your target may need to be much more broad in
order to be inclusive of enough customers.
Your Target Customer Slide
Space and simplicity is your friend. You are going to need to
simplify this to just a few bullet points to comfortably fit on
this slide. Perhaps along with an image.
However, showing your target customer in a pitch deck really
starts well before you get to this slide.
The Market Slide
Here you’ll show the total market. The biggest it could be, if
you could and wanted to serve them all. Next you’ll break it
down to your TAM, and SOM. Who you can really reach and
serve right now.
The Problem Slide
Through your problem slide you will demonstrate your
understanding of the problem you are solving, through your
customer. You’ll be crisp and clear about the problem. Though
also drop in how you’ve verified and proven this problem with
your target customers in a pitch deck.
Solutions & Products Slides
This is a great place to use images to show your product and
solution in use in real life situations by your target customers.
As they say, a picture is worth a 1,000 words.
The Story
In tandem with your static pitch deck slides, you’ll also have
a verbal story to tell. It is powerful if you can use this story to
depict you as a target customer, them (the investors) as a target

71
customer, and explain how you ran into the pain, and how
they can relate.
Before That
It really all starts with your cover slide. The company name,
your business address, contact information, branding, logo,
and tagline all show the vibe you are creating, and the type of
customer it is made for too. Make sure you’ve thought through
this alignment in advance.

72
Chapter 13
How to capture the market size
in a pitch deck
What’s the best way to capture market size in your pitch deck
when fundraising?
Market size is one of the most important data points in your
pitch deck. This metric alone and how it is presented can be
incredibly pivotal when it comes down to getting funded or
not. Yet, this remains one number and pitch deck slide that
even the most talented and intelligent entrepreneurs and
startup founders struggle with. So, how do you find it out and
capture the market size in a pitch deck the best possible way?
Presenting Market Size In Your Pitch Deck
One of the top three decision factors investors look at when
considering putting capital into a startup is market size. It will
make or break you.
You cannot afford to underestimate the importance of this
number. The other two main factors are most likely, the
founding team and your startup idea. There’s only so much
you can change about these to elements. However, there is a lot
you can do to present market size well, and ensure it gives you
the best chance of getting funded.
Done well, you shouldn’t have to spend much time on talking
around market size during your pitch presentations. Present
the metrics as facts, and move on.
There are three ways to present market size in your pitch deck

73
when fundraising.
They are:
1.	 Value theory: Predicting buyers willingness to pay
2.	 Bottom up: Showing existing in-house data
3.	 Top down: Based on industry research
Use a graphic, clearly and simply laying out the three main
metrics in market size:
1.	 Total market size
2.	 Total addressable market (TAM)
3.	 Serviceable and available market (SAM)
Where Market Size Fits In Your Pitch Deck
In this breakdown of the 16 most important slides in your pitch
deck, I put the market size slide very close to the beginning,
right between The Solution and Competition.
1.	 Cover
2.	 Problem
3.	 Solution
4.	 Market Size
5.	 Competition
6.	 Competitive Advantage
7.	 Product
8.	 Traction
9.	 Customers and Engagement
10.	Business Model
11.	Financials
12.	Amount Being Raised and Other Investors
13.	Use of Funds
14.	Team
15.	Advisors
16.	Back Cover

74
Capturing Market Size In A Pitch Deck: The Musts
There are two musts when it comes to market size and getting
funded by serious investors.
1. It’s got to be big enough
Your market size should be at least $1B. Probably more. It’s
what’s expected. Your company may never sell for that much,
but it shows the potential. More importantly, it demonstrates
the potential returns to investors.
2. It has to be realistic
Don’t be overly conservative. You’ve got to sell the dream
and potential. For you that may be the mission and product.
Hopefully your investors have an affinity for that too. Though
they are coming into this presentation for the money. Still,
if you aren’t realistic with your numbers it is an instant red
flag that you either have no idea what you are doing, or you
are just fluffing the numbers. You can bet that professional
investors who have the kind of money you want have a good
sense of when you are undercutting yourself or making things
up.
Keep your slide clean. Back up your figures with sources in the
appendix.
Total Market Size
How big is this space?
What is the total annual transaction volume and dollar value?
Is your business local, regional, national, international or even
inter-planetary?
What is the direction and future size of this market? What is
the projected annual growth rate?

75
Total Addressable Market
Your TAM is a portion of the total market. There are few real
monopolies. Your product or service probably isn’t the perfect
fit for everyone in this market. That even applies to Apple and
Google.
For example, if your startup focuses on vacation homes, that
only relates to a small portion of total annual real estate sales
or rentals.
Serviceable & Addressable Market
Also sometimes used interchangeably with SOM (Serviceable
and Obtainable Market). This is the percentage of market share
you can realistically expect to capture.
Most VCs believe 1-5% is a good range. Remember, you don’t
need the whole market or even a majority market share to have
a billion dollar company in a really big industry. In contrast, if
this is a smaller industry, you may need a much larger market
share to deliver the returns investors are seeking.
Greenfields: When There Is No Existing Market
Some startups are creating completely new industries and
markets. Here investors will care most that you can actually
sell your product and there are buyers.
Show the results from customer surveys. What are they saying
they want? Show sales. Even if it is only a handful of enterprise
level customers, who has actually proven your theory by
paying money for what you are offering?
Get A Second Opinion
It always pays to get a second opinion and another pair of
experienced eyes on your deck, and especially this slide and

76
its relevant data. This is even more important if you are new
to this industry. You could be missing out on a big chunk of
potential market share of size of the market. You may not be
thinking like those who know the industry and are most likely
to invest.
Consult a fundraising expert to ensure you are maximizing
your potential and the success of your deck and pitch.

77
Chapter 14
How to show your competitor
landscape in a pitch deck
How to show your competitor landscape in your pitch deck?
Intelligently displaying your startup’s competitor landscape
is a critical part of a successful pitch deck and fundraising
campaign.
So, what is the best way to show your competition, how you
compare, and leverage them into a better business of your
own?
How to show your competitor landscape in a pitch deck?
Identifying, comparing, and leveraging the competition is
critical for effective fundraising
The Importance Of Competition In Your Pitch Deck
Knowing yourself in life and business is very important, but so
is knowing your competition.
Your pitch deck is an important document for you, your
internal team, hires and consultants. It is often the clearest and
most usable document for the direction of your company and
business planning. Getting the competitive landscape right
here can be pivotal for everything you do.
In startup fundraising, the competition can play a much bigger
role than most entrepreneurs can understand. Many go out of
their way to deny and downplay competition. That is not the

78
right strategy. It will hurt your credibility and close doors.
Instead, look at the competitive landscape in your pitch deck as
a tool for strategically maximizing urgency, appeal, and value.
In many cases this slide is one of the biggest tests investors will
put you through.
Here’s how to nail it. And, How to show your competitor
landscape in your pitch deck?
Who Is Your Competition?
The number one mistake most entrepreneurs make in both
starting a business and crafting their pitch decks is overlooking
the competition.
If you haven’t done your homework on fundraising and your
space, and have completed your market research, then the
odds of failure are overwhelming. It’s just a matter of how
much time and money is going to be wasted before going back
to start from scratch again.
The second mistake in this respect is denying or believing you
don’t have competition. The third is trying to hide or dismiss
that competition.
If you don’t find any active competition in the marketplace
now, then a great starting point for any business is to go
back and look at previous startup and business attempts
in this space. Who else has tried it? Why did they give up?
What wasn’t working? What did they discover that you may
be overlooking? Talk to the founders if you can. They may
be more generous at sharing than you expect. Finding out
this information can go a long way to help you de-risk your
venture and avoid the same pitfalls.
Also, Identify Future Competitor Landscape in a Pitch Deck
Then consider future competitors. If you do start making

79
progress, get funded and clock some traction, you can be
others who want to get in on that money train. Perhaps some
are already quietly working on something similar in the lab.
Who are they? It could be other brand new startups.
Scrappy, fast moving, bootstrapped ventures that may be
willing to undercut you and over promise to scoop your
market share. Or it will be very big companies who want what
you have, and can afford to price you out, sue you out, buy
you out, or just out market you.
The other type of competition may be foreign competition in
another market or region, who may want to move into your
area.
If there are current competitors in this space start building
a list and database of them. Who are they? What are they
doing well? What are they doing poorly? And, what are they
planning? How are they different? Include this information
when figuring out how to show your competitor landscape in
your pitch deck?
How To Use Your Competitors To Your Advantage In A Pitch
Deck
Competition can be a huge advantage when fundraising. Use
them to frame and position your business, your investment
opportunity, and get investors to take action.
These are three of the top benefits of competition in your deck:
Validation Of Your Startup Idea
Contrary to the popular misconception, having a completely
new and unique idea isn’t always best. In fact, if you are ahead
of your time or it just doesn’t have any other foundation, that
can be a big disadvantage.
Having competitors means that other people believe in

80
this idea too. Maybe they have already proven the problem
and demand for a solution. Or there may be big and smart
companies and investors working on this, validating this is a
worthy investment.
Funding Amounts
Competition is great for benchmarking funding asks. For
example, you are claiming you are better and have an
advantage over a competitor in this space, but they just raised
a $9M Seed round from some respectable investors. Well then,
shouldn’t your company be worth more? Shouldn’t you be
able to justify at least a $10M or larger seed round?
Exit Strategy & Potential
If larger companies are entering or investing in this space,
then that could be a sign there is a good M&A exit on the
horizon. It may just be cheaper for them to acquire you. Or for
a competitor to roll you up for an even larger public or private
exit.
Your Competitive Advantage
Competition is fine, as long as you are clear about your
competitive advantage. What is it that you do better? What
is the one thing you can keep excelling at over the rest of the
pack?
Use your SWOT analysis for clarity on this, and for developing
a very strong USP.
The Competitor Landscape Slide
In a pitch deck, the competitor landscape is typically best
shown in an image or graph, with your company up and to the
right.

81
Choose your points of reference to plot out how you stand out
from your top four or five most serious competitors.
These factors also come into play as you show alignment
with this slide through your solution, product, marketing and
competitive advantage slide, and even team slide.
Keep Updating It
Your #1 focus should be on your own business and customers,
but keep your eye on your competition, keep updating this
slide as you go through your rounds and plan your next
milestones. And, when putting together a fundraising strategy,
work out how to show your competitor landscape in your
pitch deck?

82
Chapter 15
What is the marketing strategy
in a pitch deck
What is the place of marketing strategy in your pitch deck
when raising money for your startup?
Pitch decks can make or break your startup, and the ability
to get the funds you need to launch and grow. Some of the
funds you may need so desperately may be to execute on your
marketing strategy.
So, what role does this factor play in your deck? What are
some smart practices to use, and terrible blunders to avoid?
The Importance Of the Advertising Strategy In A Pitch Deck
Your whole pitch deck and pitch presentation is a marketing
exercise. Perhaps one of the most important marketing efforts
and sales pitches you will deliver in the life of your startup.
Without a good one you may have no marketing capital at all.
You may find it very hard to recruit great talent and advisors
in addition to investors.
You’ve got to do great here, and demonstrate how you are
going to get customers and sales, so that you can deliver for
your investors. If you can’t, how can they believe you’ll do
good in business?
The Problem
The marketing strategy in a pitch deck really starts with your

83
cover slide and tagline. It becomes even more important
on your problem slide. You have to show that you really
understand the problem, and have chosen a good one.
In your verbal pitch you’ll be telling a story around this
problem. One that will personally resonate with your
audience. One that lets them feel the pain associated with it.
Sales and marketing is all about the problem versus the
solution. The pain versus the pleasure you can bring. If you
can’t nail the problem, the foundation of everything else is
flawed.
The Solution
The solution slide in your pitch deck is where you start selling
your product. If you can’t sell it to your investors, then how
can you expect to sell it to anyone else? However, if you can
sell it to cynical investors who are looking for reasons to poke
holes in your idea and pitch, then selling regular customers
may be much easier.
Here you need to demonstrate that you can keep it simple.
Focus on the problem and the one solution you excel at
providing. In additional slides you may note a couple of key
features, differentiating factors and show off prototypes or
demos. Or at least screenshots of them.
Market Size
How big is the market for this product? Is it big enough to
warrant going after, creating a business around and investing
capital in? What data do you have on the size of the customer
pool? Is it growing or shrinking?
In your competition slide, you’ll show your competitive
advantages over others in this space and how you think you
can win market share. This is a critical facet of the marketing

84
strategy in a pitch deck.
Target Market & Target Customers
Who are your target customers exactly? You can’t market well,
effectively and profitably unless you really deeply know and
understand your customers. What is your customer avatar?
What are some of the use cases for your product? You may
even demonstrate this with pictures. How many of these
customers with this profile have you spoken to already?
Traction
In your traction slide you are showing what you’ve achieved
so far. This includes how many customers you’ve acquired
and sales you’ve made. This will show that your marketing
strategy is working, and you just need to scale it up. Or if it
isn’t and you’ve hit a wall.
The Team
For investors, the ability to execute is even more important
than your idea and product. Specifically, do you have the best
possible team in this industry to execute a good marketing
strategy?
What epic marketing experience do they have? What results
have they achieved? What are their qualifications?
If you are weak here, then how will you give your investors
confidence that you can not just pull this off, but are the best
company in this space for them to bet on?
What amazing advisers or CMO and marketing experts are
you bringing on board to champion this all important part of
the puzzle?

85
Business Model
The foundation of your business model is how you will acquire
customers. That’s an essential part of the marketing strategy
in a pitch deck. What marketing channels and tactics have you
tried already?
How does your sales funnel work? How much is it costing to
acquire new customers and sales? What are the returns on this
marketing?
Is Marketing A Part Of Your Fundraising Ask?
Will at least some of the funds you are raising for being used
for marketing? If you have no experience or tests, what will
you try first, and why? Will you be investing in developing a
real, custom marketing strategy? Be careful here.
What marketing does your business rely on? Is it all reliant on
Google search or paid ads on Facebook or using TikTok? Or is
it enterprise sales with a very long sales cycle?
In which case do you have the sales people with connections
and financial runway to afford this? Are you planning a heavy
upfront investment in marketing, like a physical store or
inventory?
Take a step back and look at this marketing strategy in the
pitch deck from your investors’ perspective. Is it sustainable?
Does it offer good unit economics? Does it give you a moat
around your business from competitors?
How will you control your marketing effectiveness and costs in
the months and years ahead? What can you do that is unique,
and has a high marketing ROI?
What is the marketing strategy in a pitch deck designed for
raising money for your startup? Pitch decks affect your ability
to get the funds you need to launch and grow

86
Chapter 16
How to share your traction in
a pitch deck
How to share your traction in a pitch deck? In other words,
what is the best way to demonstrate traction in your pitch
deck?
Showing traction is one of the key elements in startup
fundraising. So, what are investors looking for? What is the
best way to display it in your deck? If you are coming up short,
how do you boost your velocity?
How to share your traction in a pitch deck which is one of the
key elements in startup fundraising? Displaying your traction
ot boosting velocity is critical
So, what are investors looking for? What is the best way to
display it in your deck? If you are coming up short, how do
you boost your velocity?
Top Triggers For Getting Your Startup Funded
The business idea is probably actually one of the least
impactful factors when it comes to getting your startup
funded. Experienced repeat founders and investors know that
these factors can really be far more indicative of future success,
fundability at future rounds, and longevity.
The Team
Do you have a strong team? Not just a smart team with

87
degrees from well known universities, but team members
who are right for this project, have good and well-rounded
business acumen, and the serious grit it is going to take to keep
marching through all of the daily challenges? Everything else
may change, but if you have the right team, something will
work out in the end.
Focus
IQ, deep technical experience, big vision and creativity, and
hustle can all yield zero tangible results without focus. You
have to be dialed in and have the blinders on to really move
the needle and stay headed in the right direction.
The pitch deck is a significant test of focus. 99% of
entrepreneurs fail right here. Can you resist all the
temptations, and produce a short, clean, simple and focused
pitch deck? If not, they probably don’t even need to swipe to
the traction slide, because you aren’t going to get enough.
The Problem
The problem you are setting out to solve is far more important
than your intended solution and product or business model.
Pick the right problem and demonstrate you have supreme
clarity on it, and you’ll have a solid foundation for generating
traction.
Traction
While all of the above is vitally important, traction will make
or break you. Not just in terms of getting funding, but in
running your business.
The Big Deal About Traction
What’s so important about traction? Why is it such a big deal?

88
Aside from setting the right foundation for your venture to
grow, traction should probably be your biggest focus internally
as well.
Firstly, gaining traction shows proof of your concept and
demand for a solution to the problem you are working on.
After all, investors are pitched with all kinds of fantastic
sounding ideas, and slick decks, and sales lines all day long,
every day.
The only one way to really differentiate the 90% that will never
be more than hype and an idea, and the ones that will actually
work is results.
Traction shows that you are really capable of executing and
creating meaningful progress. There’s not much that beats that.
Your traction also indicates how fast you can grow your
business. While growth is never a consistent straight line on its
own, your traction can be a strong signal of the multiples that
may be possible for investors and how fast they may expect a
return on their investment.
What Is Traction?
Traction is progress and growth.
There is more than one way to share your traction in a pitch
deck, depending on your startup, focus and what you have to
work with.
Examples of this may include:
●	 Customer acquisition
●	 Sales volume
●	 Revenues
●	 Revenue per employee
●	 Headcount

89
How To Project Your Traction In A Pitch Deck
To share your traction in a pitch deck focus on just one metric.
Use that to track, display, focus on growing and as the metric
of success before the next milestone, and asking for more
funds.
Display this prominently on your dedicated traction slide. This
is typically done in graph form.
You can also drive this home by showing your growth in this
traction metric on your timeline.
How Much Traction Is Enough?
How much traction is enough to show?
Different types of investors at different stages in your startup
will have varying expectations of speed of traction.
In the earliest stages investors will be expecting you to show
week over week growth. Then that may expand to month over
month, and later, year over year.
Eventually growth will slow once you get big. In the early days
you may be up against other startups growing 10% or more
per week or month, and at least 50% per year.
Questions To Expect On Your Traction
After presenting your pitch deck you are going to be fielding
questions from investors. Acing these questions is going to
greatly determine whether you get the funds or not.
Obviously, a great, clean pitch deck is very lean, so some of
the follow up questions you should be prepared for on your
traction will probably include:

90
●	 How well are you retaining customers?
●	 Sales from new versus existing customers?
●	 Percentage of refunds given?
●	 How are your reviews?
●	 Forecasts for traction over the next year?
●	 Profit margins on this traction?
Ways To Boost Traction
●	 Join a startup accelerator or incubator
●	 Partner up for distribution and sales
●	 Get scrappy with your marketing
●	 Leverage affiliates, franchisees, or influencers
●	 Publish more content
●	 Make sure your team is refocused on this traction metric
Summary
Traction is one of the most important factors for getting
your startup funded. It’s one tangible proof point that can
differentiate you from all the hyped up sales pitches with no
results. Hone in on it, and excel here to get the financial fuel
your venture needs. Learn how to share your traction in a pitch
deck carefully and you’re sure to acquire all the funding you
need.

91
Chapter 17
How to position the team in a
pitch deck
How you present and position your team in your pitch deck
can make all the difference in getting your startup funded. So,
how do you introduce your team well? Who is even on your
‘team’ when it comes to designing your pitch deck? What do
investors want to see? How can you fill in the gaps?
The Most Important Slide In Your Pitch Deck
What is the most important slide in your pitch deck?
Some think it is the solution? Others the problem slide? The
financials slide is a popular one with investors. The cover
slide can be key to setting up the entire deck with a great first
impression.
Yet, it is the team slide which really trumps all the others in
importance.
Yes, you have to get the others right. Though the decision to
fund you or not often all comes down to the team.
You can have the right problem, solution, a great product idea
and be in a really big market, but without a team investors
are willing to bet on, they aren’t going to give up a dime.
Ironically, the opposite can almost be true in some cases.
What Investors Are Looking For In A Fundable Team

92
If the team is so important, what is it that potential investors
really want to see?
There are two main factors that they are looking at:
1.	 Ability
2.	 Commitment
Is your team capable?
There are two parts to this. First is if your team has the
technical ability to solve this problem. What unique skills have
you developed to understand and solve this problem? Maybe
you are one of only a few engineers or scientists in the world to
have spent years studying and working on systems like these.
The second part is real experience, especially in a business
context. Being able to code, design a system, or having seen
many others do it is one thing. Having the commercial
experience of creating a product that sells, and building a
profitable business that can scale is a completely different
thing. It’s apples to oranges or ice cream to cake.
Technical genius is one thing, but it doesn’t make an actual
business. So, you also want experience in marketing, managing
a team, finance, and more. If you have experience in a startup
setting, and especially have previous exits with strong
multiples returned to investors that is a huge bonus.
Investors are looking for the best team. That’s the one you’d
back with your own money, right? It is the startup with the
best team that wins. So, demonstrating that you’ve compiled
the best team with experience in your domain can help
overcome weaknesses in any other area.
Being coachable is also a huge deal. Being intelligent and
wise is important. Though being coachable can be far more
important than what you know. There will always be things

93
you don’t know. You’ll never get it if you aren’t willing to learn
from those who do have the experience.
How can you prove you won’t quit?
Everything else can look perfect, but without the grit and
perseverance no entrepreneur or team is going to survive the
constant barrage of daily challenges that are going to come.
What can you demonstrate that shows you have commitment
and resilience? What have you done in the past that shows
you’ve got what it takes? What have you sacrificed to get here?
What are you willing to give up to continue with this startup
and get this funding?
Who Counts As Your Team In Your Pitch Deck?
You only have a limited amount of space to display your team
on a pitch deck slide. There are also downsides to including
too many team members. Even though they may be key team
members, if they are just employees there is the risk they
may not stick it out. That’s not going to look awesome, if you
are bleeding people who you raised money based on having
during the funding process.
So, what we are specifically talking about here are:
●	 Coufounders
●	 Executives
●	 Advisors
When To Start Introducing The Team In Your Pitch
The team slide typically comes in late in the pitch deck. Though
you don’t have to wait that long to begin positioning your team.
Begin introducing your team and positioning them with these
qualities early on. You can do it with your verbal introduction,
the story of your problem and solution, and so on.

94
You should also try to bring in your cofounders to any live
pitches or on video calls.
What To Include On Your Team Slide
The team slide is simple. It is profile pictures of your team,
their names and roles, and a one or two sentence bio. Just a few
words which best sums up how they bring the above strengths
to the table.
You can also include links to their executive bios on your
website (best), or links to their LinkedIn profiles for more
depth.
You may include a second slide for notable advisors as well.
What If Your Team Could Be Stronger?
If you aren’t confident that your current team checks all the
boxes, this is the time to do something about it.
You can:
●	 Hire the best in the business
●	 Bring in cofounders who are willing to bring capital
●	 Give small amounts of equity to notable advisors to
bring them in
As a part of your fundraising ask you can also explain who
you will hire to fill any of these gaps with the funds you bring
in

95
Chapter 18
How to present the amount to
raise in a pitch deck
Creating a pitch deck is really all about getting funded and
asking for the money. There is a lot of advice available on
pitch deck design, and many of the core slides in a deck.
Though much less on presenting the raise and ask. So, how do
you position your ask?
How Much Should You Be Raising?
Before you ask, you have to know how much to ask for. Sooner
or later you are going to have to justify that number somehow
too.
From the headlines it may seem like many startups are raising
at very arbitrary numbers. There are good reasons to round
up. Yet, any investor who has put in the work and sacrifice and
has had the financial wisdom to amass the amount of capital
you are asking for is going to obviously have some financial
smarts, and will want to do the math. If they have other
investors or LPs they are responsible to, then they are legally
liable for making sure the math makes sense too.
So, what should your raise be based on?
Reaching The Next Milestone
Exactly what the need is will vary by your fundraising round.
Whichever stage that is, this pitch deck is all about getting you
to the next milestone.

96
This may be building a prototype, getting to market, scaling
and expanding, or funding the roll up of other companies
ahead of an exit.
There may be hard fixed costs to get there and investments to
be made.
Runway
Not only may you have to layout capital investments to get
to the next milestone, but you will have carrying costs and
operating expenses to keep running until you get there as
well. This can include software, leased space, communications,
insurances, payroll, etc.
The average time between funding rounds has typically been
about 12 to 18 months. In times of crisis and great financial
uncertainty the ability to close a new round may be delayed.
Meaning raising for a longer runway is wise. While you may
be able to raise back to back rounds faster, it is dangerous to
bet on it.
Make sure you are raising enough to get through closing the
next fundraising round, without getting so low on capital that
your next investors can have the power to take advantage of
you.
Hiring
Expanding hiring is considered a good use of funds if it is
justified by need. After all, having the best team in your space
is critical for winning. Sharing your hiring needs in your deck
can also lead to introductions to top talent from your investors.
Comps
How much are your competitors raising at this stage in
business? That is a good justification and benchmark to use.

97
Cushion
Be sure to include additional funds for a cushion. Everything
costs more than you think, and takes longer than you think. It’s
far better to have extra, than not enough.
The Ask Slide
Keep your ask slide extremely simple. All you need is a few
bullet points laying out the categories you plan to use funds
for.
Be wary of asking for money for marketing channels that don’t
seem efficient, or asking for less than competitors have been
raising at for the same rounds.
Positioning The Ask
Setting up the ask is done throughout your previous slides.
The Financials Slide
The financials slide demonstrates the potential returns on their
investment in a simple way. Early stage startups have very
simple, if any existing financials. So, it is about crisply laying
out the forecast and projections for profit margins and growth.
The Problem Slide
The core of your business isn’t really the product or solution,
it is the problem. If you have the right and a strong problem,
everything will work itself out. Use your problem slide to
show you have clarity on the problem. An urgent one, with
demand, that you have proven exists, and you understand
the value of in terms of what solving it is worth to your target
customers.

98
Market Slide
Use this slide to show just how big this market and potential
business is. How vast can their investment grow as you expand
into this market and the problem grows over the next decade?
Traction Slide
If you have proven the problem, and have created a solution
and product, how is that showing up through actually doing
business? This is where you give them something tangible.
It’s real. Something that they can take to the bank, instead of
only being an inspiring dream. How many sales have you been
making? What about revenues and profits and unit economics?
If they add their capital how can it simply multiply the great
results you are getting already?
Other Investors
What other investors have participated in previous rounds
that can give you credibility and make them feel smart about
participating in? Which other investors have committed to
participating in this round? Which investor has committed to
leading this round and can make them feel comfortable and
confident about jumping in too? How much are these other
investors pledging to put in?
Summary
There is a lot of art to creating a successful pitch deck. When
it comes to presenting your ask, you have to be able to back
up the math. Your positioning of the ask should start well
before the ask slide, and allow them to connect the dots for
themselves.

99
Chapter 19
How to nail your pitch deck
narrative
How to nail your pitch deck’s narrative?
Having the right facts and data points is good. Everyone has
that covered. How you present the narrative in your pitch deck
can be far more pivotal.
How do you nail this vital part of the mission when getting
ready to pitch investors who can help bring your vision to
becoming reality?
A Great Startup Is Built On…
What is the key to building a successful startup? Is it the
business idea? The market size? The IP you’ve registered?
These things can all help. Though it is really all about the
narrative. The story that it told.
This is true of your startup as a whole. It makes all the
difference in individual sales and securing sizable distribution
channels. It is true for getting the best team to buy into the
mission. For achieving the best M&A outcomes, and certainly
for fundraising.
If you start digging into it you’ll quickly find that the real value
is all found, unlocked, and created by the story. So, how do
you unfold a great one in your pitch deck and presentation

100
so that you not only maximize all of these other parts of your
business, but your fundraising efforts too?
Find the Best Story for Your Pitch Deck
You do have a story. Your startup has a story. There is a great
one hiding in there. Use it as a starting point when thinking
about how to nail your pitch deck’s narrative?
However, many entrepreneurs, especially technically minded
founders either have a hard time seeing it, are afraid to tell it,
or they try to replace it with lots of facts and stats and technical
specs. Because that’s how their minds work. Though it is not
what sells a startup or an investment opportunity.
Remember, at least for now you are pitching humans, not
algorithms. Maybe soon, just like replicating hit songs,
computers will be able to identify hit stories, it’s just not
coming in time for this startup, for the next couple of funding
rounds.
So your story not only needs to be unique and compelling, but
personal.
If you can’t see it, or the story you are telling isn’t working
as well as you hoped, then considering bringing in an expert
storyteller who does this for a living. Have a conversation with
them. Let them extract your best story and spin it in the best
possible way.
The Characters
Who is this band of characters in your story?
Every great story, book, movie and startup has a great cast of
characters. Think Lord of the Rings, The Fantastic Four or the
PayPal Mafia. Who are yours?
Who are the heroes on the journey? Who else will be a part of

101
their journey and can also play a notable role, like the wizard
in the Wizard of Oz? This covers your founders, advisors and
investors.
Then you have your customers and employees. They are
all telling themselves a story too. They want to participate
in a great story. Like buying the latest iPhone, even if it is
ridiculously overpriced, unnecessary, and offers little tangible
improvement over the current phone.
Or buying a $500 bottle of Tesla tequila. Or being a part of a
world changing that can stop climate change. Think about how
you can include them when figuring out how to nail your pitch
deck’s narrative?
These are parts of the story that will show up on your cover
slide, team slide, competitive advantage and product slides.
Your team slide also describes how life has prepared you for
this moment and to be the one to champion this problem and
bring the solution.
Your Why
Your why can be the most important anchor of your story. It
can be the most compelling part of the story that convinces
others to come along for the ride. It also gives investors
confidence that you will stick with this venture through all of
the daily challenges. This is the big differentiating factor in
startups and entrepreneurs that win. Even more so than the
idea and product.
This will probably show up in the problem slide. Be sure to
explain why you are driven to solve this problem. How did
you encounter it? What examples can you give investors of
how they’ve encountered it and have felt this pain before.
How Are You Going To Be The Champions Of This Story?

102
What is the solution you are bringing that will make you the
champions of this story and give you victory over the bad
guys? What is the superpower you are bringing to the table?
If there are pieces missing, what are they? What will you need
to find or navigate to complete the journey? That’s a good
starting point when designing ideas for how to nail your pitch
deck’s narrative?
Paint Your Vision Of The Future with a Great Pitch Deck Story
Where the real art of storytelling and fundraising come
together is in forecasting your vision of the future. What
does the future look like when your startup is really being
successful? What does success look like for them? You have
to sell the dream. Some of that will be data based. Yet, it also
takes some art.
Summary
Being technical may be the key to many things in a startup.
Including developing a great product and IP, maintaining
good unit economics, and establishing a technological
competitive advantage. Yet, it is storytelling that unveils and
adds the most value. The best narrative wins. Not the best
product or most qualified and capable team. If you want the
funds and all of the advantages that come with that, get a great
story. Just make sure you can back it up with facts too.
How to nail your pitch deck’s narrative? Having the right facts
and data points is good but presenting the narrative in your
pitch deck can be far more pivotal.
How do you nail this vital part of the mission when getting
ready to pitch investors who can help bring your vision to
becoming reality?

103
Chapter 20
How to present your pitch
deck to investors
How do you start successfully presenting your pitch deck to
potential investors?
Investors play a significant role in the startup ecosystem. For
plenty of entrepreneurs raising money from investors is what
getting into startups is all about. In many cases raising money
from investors is a must for getting a startup off the ground, if
not just empowering it to reach its maximum potential.
So, how do you go about getting in front of investors who can
give your startup the funding it needs?
Why Are You Raising Money?
Before you start reaching out to investors, it is important to get
clarity on why you are raising funds.
Just as much as you need to be clear on your why for starting
your business, you probably aren’t going to get the end results
you want from raising money and pitching investors, unless
you are clear on your why here too.
Even if your only why is just to get as much money as possible,
you need to be hitting the right investors at the right time, with
the right presentation.
If you are raising to build a prototype or hardware, there

104
will be certain investors for that. If you are raising to test and
prove your product, then there may be other investors for that.
If you’ve already proven product market fit, then there are
different sets of investors who can help you scale and open
other doors for you.
Be sure you understand the advantages and disadvantages
of raising at each stage, and who is the right fit, or you’ll be
giving away significant chunks of your company and control,
without really being able to put that money to its best use.
Who Are The Right Investors?
The first step to honing in on who to present your pitch deck
to is identifying the right investors for your stage. While the
lines can blur at the edges, these are generally the steps you
will take through different fundraising rounds. At least unless
you really bootstrap for an extended period, and through key
milestones.
Friends & Family
To get off the ground, work through the idea and have
something to show you’ll be starting off with raising money
through your personal network. Family and friends, friends of
family, and family of friends. Think old classmates, professors,
bosses and coworkers.
Angel Investors & Startup Accelerators
The next step is professional angel investors, angel groups and
startup accelerators and incubators which also provide seed
stage funding.
Venture Capital Firms
Series A, B and C rounds bring the need for bigger checks to
perfect and start scaling startups. This is the main space that

105
VCs occupy.
Private Equity Funds & Strategic Corporate Investors
Series D, E and F rounds have become increasingly popular
as startups choose to stay private and grow for longer on their
own. Often these rounds fund global expansion and the roll up
of other companies in their space prior to going public or an
even larger M&A deal.
Making A Shortlist
There should always be more to partnering with investors than
the money. In fact, the money should probably be the last thing
on your list.
Even if all you want to accomplish is to raise the most possible
money over the next couple of years, and sell your company
for billions of dollars, you also need the best investment
partners to help you unlock and make the next steps possible.
So, what are the other resources you should be looking for in
an investor?
●	 Experienced operational advisors
●	 Introductions to other investors
●	 Recruiting help for key team members and executives
●	 Distribution and supplier channels
You’ve probably heard of other startup entrepreneurs who
have had to present their pitch decks to hundreds of investors
before getting a single yes. That’s a lot of time and energy. All
of which could be spent actually building a business. You can
dramatically reduce the odds of being told no and having to go
through so many presentations by honing in even further.
●	 Which investors have been investing in startups like
yours?

106
●	 Who believes in your mission and vision?
●	 Who has a good reputation for treating founders and
customers well?
●	 Which investors are working on a similar exit timeline
as you?
Polishing Your Pitch Deck
The pitch deck is the core of presenting your investment
opportunity. That is no doubt even truer today in the post
COVID lockdown world we live in. Now that you’ve got a
tight shortlist of investors to present to, make sure you go back
and polish your pitch deck and be sure it is a great fit for them.
Keep it short and simple. 10 to 16 slides is plenty. Use a proven
existing template to work efficiently.
In addition to your pitch deck, plan on being prepared with
key supporting materials, including:
●	 One page business plan
●	 Executive summary
●	 Your latest investor update
Presenting Your Pitch Deck
Often you’ll be sending your deck in advance to even get
noticed or get a conversation with investors.
You can do that by email attachment or sending a link to a
shared Google Drive folder with these documents.
When you do get to present in person, whether live in front
of a large audience, in a private meeting, or over Googe Meet,
you need a strong 15 to 20 minute verbal presentation to
go with your slides. Then you need to be well prepared to
successfully navigate a grilling in the Q&A session.

107
Chapter 21
How to send a pitch deck to
friends and family
How do you send your pitch deck to friends and family?
Friends and family will be an incredibly pivotal part of your
journey as an entrepreneur. This is true whether you actually
directly raise money from them or not. If you can raise from
them, it can be some of the best capital you can bring in. Here’s
how to approach it.
Pitching Friends & Family
There are three reasons to pitch and send a pitch deck to
friends and family:
1.	 For practice ahead of pitching angels or VCs
2.	 For raising from from them before going onto other
rounds
3.	 For gaining introductions to their friends and family
who may fund you
Even if you don’t raise from them, this is your core support
group. Entrepreneurship can be lonely. You are really going
to appreciate having them in your corner on this journey.
For them to do that it really helps for them to get what you
are doing, get excited about it, and understand some of your
challenges.
Just practicing with them can really help you find holes in your

108
pitch, polish it and perfect it, before approaching the investors
you really want.
You may also be surprised at what introductions they can
make for you too. The network around this group is hundreds
and thousands of people. They may be able to open many
doors for you, far beyond just the money.
The Place Of The Friends & Family Round
When it comes to the series of fundraising rounds the friends
and family round comes first. This is typically your pre-seed
round.
If your family is well off, then they may have the financial
capacity to participate in your Seed as well. The majority don’t.
Whatever their level of participation, official or not, raising
money from friends and family is significant to future
investors. It shows that others believe in you, your mission and
business. It shows that those who know you best really believe
in you. You can imagine the opposite is true too.
Who Are Friends & Family?
Who counts as friends and family?
●	 Immediate and extended family members
●	 Coworkers and former coworkers and bosses
●	 College classmates and professors
●	 Strong social media connections
●	 Friends of friends, family of friends, and friends of
family
The Pros & Cons Of Raising From Friends And Family
There are both potential pros and cons to raising from friends
and family.

109
The most obvious advantage of raising from this group is that
it can be the fastest and easiest money you can raise. They
should already know you, like you and trust you, and that is
90% of the battle.
In many cases this group may also be the most lenient when
things aren’t going according to plan. They may be more
patient and hands off.
The opposite can also be true, and that can be one of the
biggest cons of raising from this group as well. If the business
isn’t going well then these relationships can be strained. Your
business is important to you, but these relationships can be
even more valuable.
If these raises are messy, they can complicate ownership
structures and make future raises more complicated and
expensive than they need to be.
Curating Your Pitch Deck For Friends & Family Rounds
If you are serious about raising from this group of potential
investors then it is worth curating your pitch deck for them.
Consider what may be most important for them to learn, and
less so. Since you already have a personal relationship with
them, or at least a very warm introduction, this is much less
about proving your individual capability, and even track
record or returns, as it is telling a story that resonates with
them personally, and selling them on the dream.
How To Share & Send Your Pitch Deck To Friends & Family
If this is a test run for raising from more professional investors
then you may want to do a full trial run with how you plan
to share your pitch deck with them. That may be via email or
Google Drive.

110
Whenever possible you also want to be presenting this in
person as well, just as if you were meeting with any other
investor. You may also use a video chat service with screen
sharing capability or this. Like Google Meet.
If you want to raise from your friends and family network
then it is also smart to reach out using the ways you normally
communicate with them. Or at least through the mediums they
use most. That may include texting, WhatsApp, or by sending
private YouTube or Vimeo slideshow links.
Next Steps
After sharing and presenting, collect and evaluate all the
feedback you get. Tweak your pitch deck and presentation as
you see fit to optimize it for future pitches.
If you still need to raise from other investors, then get busy
building your target list of ideal investors. Then begin
repeating sharing and pitching for real this time.
Then it is about getting to work and delivering on the results
you promised. Put that money to great use achieving the next
milestones you vowed to conquer. Once you do that more
capital will open up to you. Your initial investors will want to
put in more capital, and they will tell others that you did what
you said and were able to execute. Future investors will also
now have references to check in within.

111
Chapter 22
How to send your pitch deck
to a venture capital firm
How do you go about successfully sending your startup’s pitch
deck to a venture capital firm?
VCs play a big role in the startup ecosystem. For many
entrepreneurs getting funded by them is like the holy grail. For
some it seems to be the whole motivation for coming up with
a startup idea in the first place. In a lot of cases venture capital
is essential for getting a startup off the ground, if not at least
helping it realize its full potential.
So, how do you go about sending your pitch deck to a VC firm
for funding?
Venture Capital’s Role In Startup Fundraising
VCs are probably the most visible and famous funding sources
in this space.
They are not the only sources of financing though. There
is private equity and strategic corporate investors. Angel
investors and angel groups may even be more plentiful and
provide more overall dollar funding for startups. Then there
are a variety of banks and commercial lenders who provide
debt financing as well.
Venture Capital firms usually come into the picture from
Series A to Series C fundraising rounds. This is evolving,
and they may invest earlier or later as well. Though the first

112
funding usually comes from friends and family or angels and
crowdfunding. With the latest rounds coming from PE and
strategics. Often leading to M&A deals.
Start With Why
Before rushing to blast out a pitch deck or present in front of
venture capital firms, make sure you really own your why.
Firstly, why raise money at all?
Do you absolutely need to raise money in the form of equity
capital to get your business off the ground? Is it really hugely
advantageous to raise capital at this stage in business?
It can be, but make sure you are doing it at the right time,
for the right reasons. If you are not, then giving up large
percentages of your company, without the most efficient uses
of that capital can also be destructive.
Be sure to weigh the pros and cons of bootstrapping versus
raising, before just leaping because you think it is the status
quo.
If raising is the right move, then why VCs?
Are you at the right stage for VC firms? If so, then what do
you really want from them aside from money? Some highly
successful repeat founders bring in VCs, even when they don’t
need the capital. Money can actually be the worst reason to go
fundraising. Even if you do just need the money, then what
other benefits can you be looking for?
Investors can add a lot of extra value, and you should
get as much as you can for what you are giving up in
equity and ownership rights. That may include recruiting
help, connections, distribution channels, other investor
introductions, advisors and board members that will give you

113
more credibility and operating strength.
Know Your Who
While the top 50 venture capital firms are probably responsible
for more than 80% of all the VC dollars invested each year,
there may be well over 1,000 firms to choose from for pitching.
It is unfortunately not uncommon for startup entrepreneurs
to end up pitching hundreds of investors before getting their
first yes. Often even going to countless meetings and multiple
meetings with some VCs before getting told no.
If you are spending half of your time each week just on
fundraising efforts for months or a year, you can imagine the
huge drain, and time that could be used actually building a
successful business.
Taking the time in advance to do your research and make a
much tighter short list of your ideal investors should yield a far
more efficient fundraising experience.
This shortlist should be composed of your ideal and best fitting
investors. Those who have the most to offer in additional
resources and credibility, as well as who are experts in your
space, are actively funding your type of startup, believe in
your vision and have alignment with your timeline.
Once you’ve got your shortlist of VCs, be sure you polish your
pitch deck, and curate and tailor it to fit them best.
How To Send Your Deck To Venture Capital Firms
Connecting With VCs
The first step is to connect with your target VC firms and
partners. This may include:

114
●	 Sending cold emails
●	 Reaching out via DMs on social media networks
●	 Asking for introductions
●	 Using consultants and advisors with connections
●	 Attending pitch events
●	 Joining a startup incubator or accelerator
●	 In person networking
Sharing The Deck
You are probably either going to email the pitch deck as an
attachment, or provide a private link for access online, like in
Google Drive.
You’ll also accompany your pitch deck with supporting
materials, like:
●	 Your latest investor update
●	 Executive summary
●	 One page business plan
When emailing cold connections, pay special attention to the
from address you are emailing from, your subject line, and the
body. You’ve got to stand out and motivate them to view it.
What’s Next?
Follow up. Don’t be afraid to follow up. Make sure they
received and made time to view it. You can also use yoru
investor updates to add that extra sense of urgency.
Get prepared for investor meetings. Whether in person or via
Google Meet, be ready, be in the right mindset, and be ready
for the questions you’ll be hit with.

115
Chapter 23
How to share a pitch deck
securely
To share a pitch deck securely, you must use software services
with robust cybersecurity. This software preferably includes
some form of encryption with end to end encryption, which is
the safest way to protect your pitch.
In this article, I’m going to show you why the security of your
pitch deck is important and how to share your pitch deck
securely. In this way, you can ensure your pitch does not fall
into the wrong hands.
Why Pitch Deck Security is Important
The shadowy world of espionage and sabotage doesn’t
belong just in the pages of a James Bond novel; for a serious
businessperson with a real business plan, they are both real
dangers. Whenever money is involved, especially around
innovative products or services with unique selling points,
stealing is sadly something we have to guard against.
Think about putting together your beautiful idea for a new
product/service, amassing hundreds of hours of product
development and market research time, only to have someone
take your idea and sell it as their own.
Let me put this simply: This happens every day!
There are several ways to protect yourself against this,
including product patents and trademarks.

116
However, copyright will only protect you and your business
to a degree. Patents stop people from copying your idea
outright, but another company could draw influence from
your concept and create something that is different enough.
Your competitors’ ideas could blow you out of the water, but
not violate copyright.
This is especially true for large companies who can throw
money and resources at a product in a way that most
entrepreneurs cannot. Even if you have a head start, those with
such resources can make it to market first.
Pitch deck security helps to alleviate at least some of the risk.
When you’re pitching your idea to angel investors, especially if
you aren’t already trading, you want to limit pitch exposure so
you can control who sees it and who does not.
The problem is that robust security is required to do this.
Who Should See Your Pitch Deck?
It’s important to have a clear idea of who you want to give
access to your ideal pitch deck. When you know this, everyone
else outside of this group should be kept in the dark.
There are two categories of people who you should want to
see your pitch deck. I label these categories “investment” and
“networking”.
The investment category includes anyone who has the
potential to invest in your business idea and help you take it
forward. The networking category involves anyone who can
get your pitch to those potential investors.
You could send your pitch directly to an investor in the
investment category. But, you could also send it to someone
you know with good business contacts and they could forward
it on for you. Obviously, there’s a bigger security risk if there is

117
a third party between you and the investor, but sometimes this
is unavoidable.
It’s good if you know you can trust others with your ideas and
business concepts, but unfortunately, you must still be vigilant
– especially if your idea is potentially worth millions!
Who Shouldn’t See Your Pitch?
Retrict your pitch deck to those who need to know only.
Anyone outside of this is superfluous. Sometimes you might
share your deck for feedback, but try to do this with trusted
parties only.
Most of all, do your best to ensure that competitors will not
get their hands on your pitch deck. An existing competitor
could potentially get your product to market before you. Or, at
least develop some concept that solves the same problem for
consumers, rendering your offering pointless.
This is where learning how to share a pitch deck during the
startup fundraising process securely comes into play. You can
minimize all of these issues with some good security practices
Keep Everything Secure

The first thing you should do is ensure that any computer
device (tablet, laptop, smartphone, etc.) that stores a copy
of your pitch deck, is secure. This means good anti-virus
software, but also a solid firewall.
If your business has its own premises or operates on a large
network, it needs to have good cybersecurity. If your budget
allows for it, you can hire someone in IT with a background in
cybersecurity to ensure your data is protected. Alternatively,
you can buy commercial licenses for good cybersecurity
software (McAfee, Avira, Zoho, etc.) and install it yourself.

118
If you have a much larger budget, get the assistance of
companies like IBM that offer powerful business-wide
cybersecurity.
Options for Sharing Your Pitch Deck Securely
Okay, now you have your cybersecurity sorted, let’s talk about
how to share your pitch deck securely. There are many ways
to do this, and they essentially come down to two approaches:
Digital Vs. Paper.
In the 21st century, digital tools are better than other options
for the most part, but paper copies of your pitch deck can’t be
hacked. They can even be printed on Security Paper. This type
of paper cannot be easily copied. It can also be watermarked
uniquely for each copy of your deck. That way if your deck is
copied, you know who copied it.
If you are going to send paper copies to potential investors,
remember that you’ll need a trusted courier. But, you do not to
be too disheartened if investors prefer digital copies for ease.
If you are using a digital option, you could use a service like
Google Docs. There, you can set the access levels for any
document, only allowing specific people to access it. You can
also set the security level for interaction. This means that you
could allow a user to view a document, but not download or
edit it.
Alternatively, you could send your documents via end to end
encryption. There are services like Send Safely, that allow you
to do just that. A cheaper, though the less secure option, is to
use a social media messaging app with end to end encryption.
However, this seems less professional.
Sending your pitch by email is also an option, though this is
usually less secure.

119
Chapter 24
What do I need other than a
pitch deck
What do you need besides a pitch deck to launch and fund a
successful startup?
A great pitch deck may be the most crucial tool in effectively
launching, building and financing a startup business. Yet, it is
not the only thing you need.
Here are some of the other assets you want to have lined up as
a founder to ensure your venture has the wings to fly and legs
to get funded.
What Else You Need To Start A Startup
Having a strong pitch deck is great. It can be the key to
opening the vault to the money you need to get going and
grow. It can be a vital document for attracting the right hires
and advisors. Then for keeping your entire team (and you)
focused on the big vision and the next most important steps.
However, no matter how incredible your deck is, it alone isn’t
going to do everything for you.
Business, Marketing & Cash Flow Plans
Real business plans aren’t as trendy as they used to be. That
doesn’t mean they aren’t an essential ingredient. In fact,
recent high profile startup failures may suggest they are more
important than ever.

120
I recently interviewed Joshua Motta of Coalition and
Cloudflare on the Dealmakers Podcast. After starting multi-
billion dollar ventures, and in spite of being a tech genius who
was recruited by Microsoft and the CIA as a teenager, he took
time out to create a business plan for his most recent venture.
A long form, 70 page written plan. If it was a must for him, it
probably has value for those with less experience too.
Two of the other VIP documents at this stage are your
marketing plan and budget and cash flow analysis. Without
marketing you don’t have a business. Without knowing your
cash flow needs and how you’ll cover them, you are almost
guaranteed to go broke like 90% of startups who fail for
running out of money.
Mission, Vision & Culture
You need a strong why and mission to stay the course and to
bring in the best talent who will be passionate about helping
you succeed. You also need to know and be able to paint the
big picture vision for everyone. It will keep you going and
focused.
More and more hyper successful fast growth startup founders
are realizing just how important company culture is too.
In fact, it’s everything. So, when it comes to creating their
second and third successful startups, or having to choose
one important piece of advice to share with other first time
entrepreneurs it is frequently to start with culture.
Not just a fluffy ideal. But taking the time to be intentional and
mindful and to write a values and culture document to hire
and operate by. It is probably the very first thing you should
document for your next startup company.
Team
Business is a team sport. That’s even truer when it comes to

121
startups. Find a great team to surround yourself with and
build this thing together.
This can include cofounders who help lift you up and get you
through the tough days. It is key hires with domain experience.
It is experienced advisors who have been there and done it
before.
Business Formation & Business Bank Accounts
You can’t start to bring in cash or funding until you have a
business bank account. So, claim your website domain, social
handles, tax ID number and incorporate your business. Be sure
to get a fundraising or M&A consultant who can help you best
structure your equity and stock for raising and growing your
business.
Take Action
Don’t get too lost in the weeds creating all these assets and
documents. You aren’t going to get anywhere until you are
actually taking bold actions.
What Else You Need To Raise Money
You’ll need more than just a pitch deck when it comes to
startup fundraising too.
You’ll need connections and a network so that you can get to
the investors. They can be your own friends and contacts, or
you can hack your way there by leveraging those who already
have these relationships.
You’ll need a sentence or two as an elevator pitch. These are
musts for every conversation you have from here on out. You
won’t build your network or get to present your deck without
it.

122
If you are looking for debt financing instead of equity, then
your executive summary will be even more important than
your pitch deck.
When it comes to equity fundraising you’ll need somewhere
to host your deck in the cloud for investors, and to collaborate
on it with your teams. You’ll need a pitch message to introduce
your deck when you send it out. You’ll need a phone or live
pitch script to carry you through actually presenting and
closing investors. You’ll need an easy to use CRM for building
an investor database, nurturing investor leads and following
up with them.
You have to be willing to go all in too. Don’t expect investors
to throw you all of their money if you aren’t all in and aren’t
willing to make sacrifices too.
Even to get to this point you’ll need a lot of grit and resilience.
Many of the best funded founders have had to deal with
dozens and even hundreds of investor rejections before they
finally got a single yes.
Then you have to be able to back it up. It’s easy to make
promises and claims and to attract potential customers and
investors. Just don’t get too far ahead of yourself. It will catch
up with you fast when they find out you’ve been fluffing the
facts a little too much.

123
Conclusion
Remember that ultimately fundraising is all about storytelling.
Investors are investing for the most part in future and
possibility. Even more in the early stage financings.
BONUS: if you need help from A to Z with fundraising you
may want to look into Inner Circle which is our fundraising
program.
In our fundraising program you will gain access to the
following:
●	 Monthly calls with me and Mike Seversen where we
provide training and Q&A on everything related to
capital raising efforts
●	 Over 14 hours of training content on fundraising and
financial modeling
●	 More than 10 templates (pitch deck, due diligence
checklist, executive summary, NDA, term sheets,
convertible notes, etc) that you could use for your
fundraising efforts
●	 Access to several lists of investors that you could use
(VCs, angel groups, angel investors, family offices, etc)
●	 Private Facebook group where you could network with
other founders
●	 And many more perks!
LEARN MORE ABOUT INNER CIRCLE